The Project Gutenberg EBook of Third Warning, by Roy J. Snell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Third Warning
       A Mystery Story for Girls

Author: Roy J. Snell

Release Date: February 11, 2014 [EBook #44873]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THIRD WARNING ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Rod Crawford, Dave Morgan
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net






                      _A Mystery Story for Girls_




                             THIRD WARNING


                                  _By_
                              ROY J. SNELL


                          The Reilly & Lee Co.
                                Chicago


                             COPYRIGHT 1938
                                   BY
                          THE REILLY & LEE CO.
                        PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.




                                CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                                           PAGE
  I Flaming Island                                                    11
  II The Battle of Siskowit                                           29
  III Beauty and a Threat                                             39
  IV Plumdum                                                          48
  V Night Signals                                                     58
  VI Chips                                                            72
  VII Rescued                                                         84
  VIII Mysterious Youth                                               98
  IX The Defense of Chippewa                                         106
  X Riding the Storm                                                 122
  XI Ashes in Their Hair                                             134
  XII The Crimson Spot                                               141
  XIII And May You Come Back                                         148
  XIV A Desperate Venture                                            154
  XV The Dog’s Parachute                                             160
  XVI Who Rides a Moose                                              168
  XVII The Phantom of Superior                                       177
  XVIII Father Superior at His Worst                                 184
  XIX A Flash in the Dark                                            192
  XX A Weird Resting Place                                           198
  XXI Second Warning                                                 206
  XXII Strange Comrades in Battle                                    216
  XXIII Don’t Stay Too Long                                          229
  XXIV The Invisible Host                                            239
  XXV Out of the Air                                                 247




                             THIRD WARNING




                               CHAPTER I
                             FLAMING ISLAND


“Look, Dave. See those strange clouds?” Florence Huyler shaded her eyes
to look away toward the horizon. Her face wore an expression of
bewildered curiosity.

“Yes, I see them. They _are_ queer!” young “Captain Davie,” as everyone
called him, replied as he wrinkled his brow. After giving the wheel of
his motor-driven craft a turn, he studied those clouds. “Scurrying along
the horizon,” he murmured, “they roll quite a bit, don’t they?”

“Yes, and such a peculiar shade of yellow,” Florence added. “Oh well,
clouds are different up here on Lake Superior.”

“Nothing to worry about, I guess,” said Dave, as once again he gave his
attention to the wheel.

As for Florence, at the moment she had nothing to do but think. And such
bitter-sweet thoughts as they were! She was cruising on Lake Superior.
That was grand! She had always loved the water. What was still more
magnificent, she was landing twice a week on the shores of that place of
great enchantment—Isle Royale.

Once, you will recall from reading _The Phantom Violin_, Florence with
two companions had made her summer home on a huge wrecked ship off the
rocky shores of this very island. What a summer that had been! Adventure?
Plenty of it. The ship had at last been completely destroyed during a
storm. They had barely escaped with their lives. The girl shuddered a
little even now at the thought of it.

Florence was large, strong, fearless. A marvelous swimmer and a grand
athlete, she had little to fear on land or water. And yet, as her eyes
swept the deck of the _Wanderer_, the sixty-foot motor-boat on which she
rode, a troubled look came into her fine blue eyes. Nor were those low,
circling clouds the cause of her worry. She and her cousin Dave, quite as
courageous and venturesome as she, had embarked upon an enterprise that
promised to be a failure.

“Grandfather will lose his money. He can’t afford to lose, and it’s not
all our fault,” she told herself a little bitterly. But now her thoughts
were broken by a short, stout, bronze-faced man, an Indian who appeared
at the cabin door.

“Look, John!” she pointed, speaking to the Indian. “Look at those strange
clouds!”

“Huh!” he grunted. “Smoke!”

“Sm-smoke!” the girl stared. Then she breathed a sigh of relief. “Oh,
from Canada! Forest fires. I’ve heard—”

“No Canada. Come from Isle Royale, that smoke. Island on fire.”

“On—on fire?” It was Dave who spoke.

“Yes.”

“Then that—that’s the end.” His voice was toneless with discouragement.

Isle Royale on fire! Florence tried to think what that might mean. For
weeks there had been no rain. During their short stops at Chippewa
Harbor, Tobin’s and Belle Isle, she had often walked back into the
forests. She had found the trees, the moss, the soil dry as tinder.

“Wha—what part of the island is on fire?” she managed to ask.

“Siskowit Bay.” The Indian took the wheel, relieving Dave.

“Where all those boys are camped?” the girl asked.

The Indian nodded.

“Do—do you suppose they are in danger?”

“Don’t know,” John twisted the wheel, “Bad fire.” He scanned the horizon.

“John,” said Dave, “do you know the rocks of Harlem Reef?”

“Every rock.” The Indian showed his fine teeth in a smile.

“Then I think,” Dave weighed his words carefully, “I think we’d better
put in there. It’s off our course, but—”

“What’s that?” a voice broke in sharply, “A fire on Isle Royale?”

“Yes, we—”

Florence did not finish. As she looked into the eyes of the man who had
spoken she read there something that almost frightened her.

He was a short, stout man, one of the few passengers on that voyage. In
his face she seemed to detect a look almost of antagonism. “But why?” she
thought in sudden consternation, “I’ve never seen him before, I am sure
of that. What can we have done to him?”

When the man spoke, none of this was to be detected in his words.

“A fire on Isle Royale?” He even forced a smile. “Too bad. But I can’t
say that concerns us. This is a passenger boat, bound for Rock Harbor.
Lake Siskowit, I’m told, is some twenty miles from there——”

“A fire,” Captain Davie spoke slowly, “any fire that destroys property
concerns all of us.”

“Swing her about, John,” he turned to the Indian. “We’re going in there.”

“But your schedule calls for first stop at Rock Harbor,” the man
insisted.

“That’s right, but an emergency exists. We—”

“Emergency my eye!” The man’s dark face flushed angrily. “You’ve
contracted to have me at Rock Harbor by four o’clock, the _Iroquois_
docks an hour later. I shall have just time to transact my business and
catch the _Iroquois_. If you don’t get me to Rock Harbor on time, you’ll
regret it.”

“Perhaps,” was Dave’s slow rejoinder. Turning to the Indian he said
quietly, “John, we’re putting in at Siskowit.”

“I’ll break you!” the man exclaimed angrily.

“That,” Dave laughed uncertainly, “that’s impossible. We’re already
broke.”

Turning on his heel, the passenger strode away.

“Big shot,” said Indian John, jerking his head toward the retreating
figure.

“What kind of big shot?” Florence asked.

“Don’t know.” John twisted the wheel. “Not Houghton man. Came from
somewhere. Don’t know where.”

“Well,” said Dave, “big shot or no, we’re off for Siskowit.”

Leaving the pilot house, Florence walked to the prow of the boat, then
dropped into a steamer chair. At once her alert mind was busy on past and
present. They were headed for an island. It was on fire. The island was a
regular tinderbox. There was gasoline on board. Their boat was
motor-driven.

“Three hundred gallons of gas,” she thought with a shudder. “To be of any
real help we’ll have to draw in close to the island. That’s
dangerous—might be disastrous.”

Then, like a weather-vane whipped suddenly about by the wind, her
thoughts turned to the past. It was to have been a rich and glorious
adventure—this summer cruise. Four months before she had been seated with
a jolly, friendly group, her own people for the most part, listening to a
promoter’s rosy tale of money to be made by a boat running from the
mainland to Isle Royale.

And they had the boat! Ah! yes, there had been their weakness. The
_Wanderer_, her grandfather’s boat, had been tied up at the dock for two
years. Before that it had carried fruit across Lake Michigan. Trucks had
ruined this trade. Then, too, a weak heart had forced her grandfather
into retirement.

“But you young people!” the promoter had exclaimed, “you know how to run
the boat, don’t you?”

“Oh sure,” Dave had grinned, “I’ve been on the boat with the captain here
for two years.”

“And Rufus is a fine engineer,” Florence had exclaimed, “Why not?” Her
heart had given a great leap at the thought of fresh and glorious
adventure. “I—I know a lot about the island. I’ll be first mate.”

“There you are,” the promoter had begun pacing back and forth before the
open fire, “you’ll make a fortune! You know the island is being made into
a national park,” he had enthused, “Thousands will be wanting to go
there. Most beautiful spot in all the Midwest.”

“And the temperature,” he had fairly exploded, “It’s never above seventy,
even when all the rest of the country is melting at a hundred in the
shade. Ten dollars round trip. Fifty to seventy-five passengers to the
trip. Three trips a week. You’ll wear diamonds! You’ll go to college!
You’ll—”

“Yes,” the girl thought now, sitting there watching the distant island
come nearer, “yes, we took it all in. Half of what he said was true. It
is a glorious island. The temperature is wonderful, but how many people
know it? Not many. How many are coming? Very few. We’re licked, that’s
all. Grandfather spent two thousand dollars he couldn’t well spare to fit
out our boat. Here we are making trip after trip, taking in enough to
make expenses, not earning a cent, and paying back nothing. Diamonds!
College!” She laughed a trifle bitterly.

No time now for regrets, however. The _Wanderer_ was rapidly nearing
shore. She could catch the red glow of the fire. Would there be real
danger? There were ten passengers on board. Was it right to endanger the
lives of these, even to the slightest degree? Dropping back to the side
of her stalwart cousin, she confided to him her fears.

“We’ll be careful,” said Dave. “There may be some small boat that can
take the passengers on to Chippewa.”

“I hope so,” the girl agreed.

As the _Wanderer_ at last rounded the point of land hiding the camp on
Siskowit Bay, it took no second look to tell them that the situation was
critical. Creeping slowly forward from bush to bush and tree to tree, the
fire was moving like some slow, red serpent toward the stout camp that
had been built by so much labor and such willing hands.

“They’re nice boys,” Florence breathed, thinking of the C.C.C. boys who
had built the camp.

“Fine chaps,” her cousin agreed.

Once before the _Wanderer_ had put into this harbor with supplies and,
becoming storm-bound, its crew had spent several happy hours with the
campers. Having seen neither mothers nor sisters for months, the fellows
had treated Florence as if she were a queen.

“We may be broke,” Dave muttered grimly, “but we’re not too broke to
offer a helping hand.”

“You’re not going in there?” demanded an angry voice. Once more it was
the “big shot,” as Indian John had called him, who spoke.

For a short space of time no one replied. In that brief moment, the
number of questions that passed through Florence’s mind was astonishing.
Who was this man? What did he really want?

“Yes,” it was Dave who spoke at last, quietly as ever, “yes, we are going
in.”

“You’ll blow this can of yours sky high and all of us with it.”

“Not you,” said Dave with a touch of scorn. “See! There’s a fisherman’s
boat coming to meet us. We’ll send you on to Chippewa with it.”

At that the man subsided into silence. As the small boat pulled closer,
Dave saw that Captain Frey, in charge of the camp, was on board.

“We’re coming in,” Dave shouted cheerfully. “We’ve a good pump and an
inch-and-a-half hose.”

“That’s great,” was the young captain’s heartened response. “You might
save us. But is it safe? How about the passengers?”

“Whose boat is that?” Dave asked, pointing to the small fishing schooner.

“Holgar Carlson’s, from Chippewa,” Frey answered.

“Hello, Holgar!” Dave called. “How much to carry ten passengers to
Chippewa?”

“Oh, I tank mebby ten dollar,” Holgar drawled.

“All right. Come alongside.”

“Here.” Dave waved a greenback when all passengers had been transferred.

“No you don’t. This is on us,” and Captain Frey slipped a bill in the
fisherman’s hand.

“You don’t know,” he commented a moment later, as he stood beside
Florence on the _Wanderer_, “you’ll never know what this means to us.
We’ve worked so hard getting a camp. Rain, cold, swamps, mosquitoes—it
sure has been tough on the boys, and now this!” His arms swept a wide
circle. “We’re not to blame for the fire. The boys were here, all of
them. They didn’t set it. It just came creeping down upon us from
nowhere. The boys have been fighting it for hours.”

For a time after that, as guided by Indian John’s skillful hand the boat
glided shoreward, nothing further was said. Once, as the wind veered, a
heavy cloud of yellow smoke engulfed them.

“Oh-o,” Florence gasped, trying to breathe. “This—this is terrible.”

“It’s what the boys have been up against for hours,” Captain Frey said
quietly. “We’ll be out of it in a moment.”

As Florence looked at the captain she thought, “Efficient, brave!”

Then a spectacle of the great fire caught her eye, and she gasped with
astonishment. One moment a great fifty-foot, moss-covered spruce tree
stood proudly against the sky, the next, with a loud roar, flames rushed
from its roots to the topmost branch. “Alight, like a giant candle,”
Florence exclaimed, “and there are thousands of them on the island!”
“Yes,” the young captain replied. “Close to our camp they stand some
distance apart. If only we can wet down the earth about the camp, keep
the fire from creeping, then turn the hose on it when it comes, we’ll
win.”

“And we will,” Dave exclaimed. “We’ve got a marvelous pump. If only—”

“If only you can get in close enough.” The captain stood up and stared
ahead. “How large is this boat?”

“Sixty feet long, by twenty wide.”

“Good!” the captain replied. “I’m sure there is room. The water along the
shore is deep, thirty feet. A little way out are shoals.”

“We’ll slide right in there near shore,” Dave took the wheel.

“It’s a close little berth,” he said five minutes later, as Rufus, their
young engineer, suddenly put the engine into reverse. “Rocks before us,
rocks to right and left. It’s like cruising in a bath tub.”

They dropped anchor, let down their lifeboat, sent the hose ashore, then
started the pump. At once a powerful stream of water was busy soaking
down the dry, moss-covered earth. At times it set up a terrific sizzling
sputter, as it played on a tree that had just caught fire.

Encouraged by these reinforcements, the loyal band of camp workers,
toiling with ax and shovel, redoubled their efforts.

“Will we make it?” Florence asked anxiously.

“I hope so,” was Captain Frey’s reply. “If the fire gets by us here, the
whole island may go. Think what that means! A forty-mile long island
covered with virgin timber, last stand of primeval beauty, future
playground of thousands!”

“Yes,” Florence agreed, “it does mean a great deal.” Then, and for weeks
to come, she forgot her own disappointments, her lost hopes, whenever she
thought of this larger cause which meant so much to many.

For two long hours, with the heat at times growing all but unbearable,
with the peril of a gasoline explosion ever threatening, the boat’s pump
chugged on.

There came a time at last, however, when the weary fighters leaned on
shovel handles and watched the flames fade. Then there rose a glad shout:
“The wind! The wind! It’s changed. It will drive the fire into the bay!”

This was true. The wind had changed. But Dave’s brow wrinkled. He and
Florence were for the moment on shore. “Come on,” he exclaimed. “We’ve
got to get the boat out of the bay. In a half-hour that fire will be
dangerously close to the boat and our gasoline. It’s swung round their
camp—that’s safe. But it’s coming our way with the wind up. Our pump
won’t stop it. In an hour—”

He did not finish. Instead, he rowed swiftly across to the _Wanderer_.

“Rufus!” he called. “Cut off the pump. Their battle’s won. Pull in the
hose. We’ll back out of here in a jiffy and be away.”

“Thanks. Thanks more than we can say,” Captain Frey shouted hoarsely from
the shore.

“Say-ee!” Dave stared down at the water before the prow. “We’ve shifted.
Current carried us in. I wonder—”

He did not have long to wonder. As Rufus set the motor roaring, the
boat’s propeller stirred up a great, white mass of foam, but the boat
moved never an inch.

“Grounded!” Dave groaned. “Stuck between two rocks. We’ll never get off
with our own power.”

“How terrible!” Florence was almost in tears. “We’ve tried to help, and
now this! The fire is coming! The boat—”

“What’s up?” Captain Frey shouted from the shore.

“Aground,” Dave called back.

“Wait!” The captain sprang toward the slope where the campers were
resting.

A moment later, Florence felt her throat tighten as she watched the weary
boys swarming shoreward. The hose was carried to land, and this time the
pump did double duty. The boat rocked with the throbbing of its motors.
With a heart that at all times seemed to stand still, the girl saw the
bravest of the boys in blue overalls force the nozzle of the hose almost
upon the onrushing fire.

Was the stream of water large enough? Would the fire be stopped before it
was too late? For a time it seemed that, with the hose alone, the fire
might be conquered. Then, of a sudden, a fresh and stronger gale sweeping
across the bay sent bright flames leaping along the spruce trees and into
the sky.

“We’ll lose,” Florence choked.

“Try the motor again!” Dave ordered. “We might get away now.”

The engines were accelerated, but in vain.

“Getting pretty hot down there.” Rufus mopped his brow as he came up from
below.

A wave of despair overwhelmed Florence. What would be the end? Then a
thrilling sight met her gaze. Fifty boys, each carrying a shovel or an ax
and each with his head covered by a damp cloth, marched out of the camp
cabin and straight toward the conflagration. “To do or to die for us,”
she thought.

Then the boys struck up a song.




                               CHAPTER II
                         THE BATTLE OF SISKOWIT


The “Battle of Siskowit,” as the boys later named it, was gloriously
fought.

“To think,” Florence exclaimed, as she watched one band of weary
smoke-choked fighters fall back only to be replaced by fresh shock
troops, “to think that those boys are willing to risk and endure so much
to save us and our boat! What does it matter now if we never make a
dollar from this summer’s work?”

There were times in that hour of fire fighting when the battle seemed
lost; when tall spruce trees, caught in the flames, blazed toward the
sky; when the heat burned the faces of the fighters and tar oozed up from
the _Wanderer’s_ deck.

Three times Rufus went below to set the motors roaring in the hope that
some small tide had lifted the ship off the rocks, but his efforts were
in vain. The _Wanderer_ stuck fast.

Meanwhile, with fresh wet cloths to protect their faces from the
blistering heat, some of the camp boys were swinging axes, clearing a
broad fire lane, while others had dug a deep trench and were filling it
with water to defeat the creeping flames.

“They—they’ll make it,” Florence breathed. “The wind is falling.”

A moment later she, too, was obliged to hold a damp cloth before her
eyes. A sudden fierce gust had thrown a shower of sparks on the deck of
their boat.

“Quick!” Dave shouted. “Buckets and mops! We must wet down the deck.”

Five minutes later they were breathing more easily. The fire had reached
the last tree standing before the lane that had been cut to stop the
flames.

“But will it stop there,” the girl questioned anxiously, “or will it jump
the gap? If it does, we’re lost.”

Slowly but surely, as if by a miracle, the flames died down. With a shout
of victory on their lips, a troop of workers sprang at the charred tree
trunks which still stood flaming and threatening at any moment to fall
across the gap. With sparks falling all about them, with smoking garments
and parched faces, the boys hacked and pushed until the last fiery pillar
lay flat upon the earth, its burning tinder extinguished. Only then did
all join in a hoarse shout of triumph, Dave sounding the boat siren to
heighten the note of rejoicing.

“Just think,” there was a suggestion of tears in Florence’s eyes,
“Grandfather’s boat is worth fifteen thousand dollars, and we might have
lost it!”

“It might have been blown to splinters of wood and a mass of twisted
steel,” Dave agreed. “We should be thankful.”

“We’ll go ashore and hold a jubilee,” Florence exclaimed.

This, for two reasons, they did not do. Half the would-be celebrators
were at once dispatched to a point where the fire still threatened to
outflank them, and at the same time a slim, powerful motor-boat, Patrol
Boat No. 1, rounded the point.

“Yo-ho there!” cried the skipper. “What are you lying here for?”

“Been helping a little,” Dave replied modestly. “Now we’re on the rocks.”

“On hard?” the skipper asked.

“Not very.”

“Good! We’ll have you off in a twinkle. Stand by to take a rope.”

The rope was thrown and attached to the _Wanderer’s_ stern. The motors of
the patrol boat roared, and the grounded craft moved slowly backward off
the rocks.

“Ahoy there!” Dave shouted joyously. “We’ll be all right now. Thanks a
lot.”

The _Wanderer_ had lost a little paint from her bottom, that was all, and
as the boat’s prow headed for Chippewa Harbor, Florence sat down for a
breathing spell before going below to prepare the evening meal. The look
on her face was a sober one.

“Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow,” she said aloud.

“But we have to live only today,” Dave said as he appeared on deck.

“Only today,” she smiled up at him, “and that—why that’s wonderful, isn’t
it?”

Fifteen minutes later when Dave emerged from a little wireless cabin he
had arranged on the afterdeck, he held two slips of paper in his hand.
“Important messages,” he announced. There was a hint of mystery in his
voice. He held out a paper on which she read: “Your passengers have been
taken to Rock Harbor. Signed: Ve and Vi.”

This was from Vivian and Violet Carlson, daughters of a fisherman. It
meant that the _Wanderer_ could proceed at once to Rock Harbor, unload
freight, swing around to Tobin’s Harbor and Belle Isle, then head back to
the mainland.

“If only,” Florence thought. What question was in her mind? Perhaps she
could not have told. She was for the moment oppressed by a feeling of
impending catastrophy.

The second message, picked up by chance, was strange. “Important
message,” it began. “To all lodgekeepers and to all captains of ships
touching at Isle Royale: Be on the lookout for red-and-black boat powered
by heavy outboard motor. Tall gray-haired man and girl of sixteen on
board. They are believed to have left Port Arthur for Isle Royale two
days ago. Nothing has been heard from them. Be on the lookout. Important.
Be on the lookout.”

“From Port Arthur. Forty miles of Lake Superior,” Dave said thoughtfully.
“Weather’s been pretty good. They should have made it. We’ll be on the
lookout.”

An hour later Florence dropped down upon a box of life preservers to
watch the stars come out. Far off, dim, indistinct, but suggesting all
manner of strange mysteries, could be seen the rocky, all-but-uninhabited
shores of Isle Royale. Here there might be a fisherman’s cabin and there
an abandoned lighthouse; there the shack of a recluse who mended boats;
and there, nestling along the shores of a snug little harbor, the
cottages of a small lodge.

“Not three hundred people on the entire end of the island,” she said, as
Dave passed.

“And not many coming,” said Dave. “Just think! They told us there would
be thousands. And they never said,” he went on, “that the _Iroquois_,
three times the length of our poor, little bouncing tub, would be coming
here three times a week. We’re stuck all right.”

“Yes, and yet—” Florence sighed. “Well, it’s one grand vacation.”


“What about the fire at Siskowit?” Cottagers, fishermen, lodge people and
their guests swarmed the dock at Rock Harbor on the arrival of the
_Wanderer_.

“We licked it,” Dave reassured them.

“Yes, you did,” exclaimed a skeptical old-timer. “You don’t lick a fire
on this island in that short time.”

“That’s right,” said another. “It creeps along on the ground.”

“Yes, and under the ground,” added a third. “All our soil is of vegetable
origin. Dry as it is here, everything but the rocks burn. I’ve seen holes
burned four feet deep.”

“Four feet!” Dave stared.

“No kiddin’,” the man insisted. “Question is, what’s going to be done
about it? This island is a national park. Are a pack of boys going to be
allowed to burn it up?”

“I take it,” said Dave soberly, “that you are referring to the camp boys
at Siskowit.”

“Exactly,” said the man.

“Then,” said Dave, still speaking slowly, “all I’ve got to say is that,
in a time like this, little talk and much thinking should be the order of
the day. Captain Frey says his boys didn’t set the fire. I believe him.
I—”

“Then what—”

“One thing more,” Dave broke in, “we’ve just seen those boys put up a
fight to save their camp and our boat that would have done credit to
seasoned fire fighters.”

Dave stood six feet in his stockings. He had a sharp, penetrating eye.
There was that about his tone at this moment that brought the argument to
an end.

“All right,” said a sturdily-built old man, known to all at Rock Harbor
as the Commodore. “Run your boat into Snug Harbor. Water’s deep there.
You’ll tie up for the night?”

“Why, no.” It was Florence who started to speak, then stopped. They had
meant to go on but she was weary from the day’s battle, and so, too, were
her companions.

“A few hours’ rest,” she thought with a sigh. Then a question came to
her, “What of the mysterious man who had insisted that they pass up the
‘Battle of Siskowit’?”

“There’s a boat coming in soon,” she heard the Commodore telling Dave. “A
big pleasure yacht from Chicago. She’ll be tying up at the big dock here.
That’s why—”

“Oh sure,” Dave broke in, “we’ll slide into Snug Harbor.” He had sensed
Florence’s feelings. They would stay for a while at least. Florence
heaved a sigh of relief.

“A large pleasure yacht!” she exclaimed. “That will be swell, just to
look at.”

“Yes, to look at,” Dave laughed. “That’s as far as we’ll get.” He glanced
down at his smoke-blackened clothes.

“But Commodore,” Florence exclaimed. “What about that man? Did he go on
the _Iroquois_?”

“What man?” The commodore stared at her.

“A short, stout man with a dark face.”

“I don’t recollect seeing him,” was the reply. Florence stared at the
commodore, but said no more. Somehow she had felt all along that this man
did not intend to leave the island. But why? She could not answer.

“I believe he’s still here,” she thought. “Perhaps back there somewhere
in the dark just now.” The thought gave her a sudden turn. “But why
should I care?” she whispered almost fiercely, “Why should he wish to
break us? ‘Break you’—yes, those were his very words.” Dave had said they
were broke. That was not quite true. They were paying expenses. That was
something. But if someone robbed them of their few passengers? What then?

“We’d have to leave the island,” she thought in sudden consternation.




                              CHAPTER III
                          BEAUTY AND A THREAT


Slipping away from the main dock, the _Wanderer_ moved down the moonlit
harbor to find a berth close to the brightly lighted lodge.

After a hasty meal of boiled potatoes and trout fried in deep fat, topped
off with coffee and apple pie, Florence felt much better.

The little party went ashore. Dave and Rufus soon settled down in a dark
corner to talk with fishermen about boats, motors and the latest catch of
fish.

Florence stole off alone to wander down the narrow path that leads to the
main dock. Hanging high, the moon shining between the birch trees painted
patches of gold on the path. The strong smell of damp earth, mingled with
the heavy odor of thimbleberries in bloom, greeted her at every turn. The
cool damp of the night made her shiver with sheer joy.

“After all that stifling heat,” she whispered.

Arrived at a spot close to the dock, she turned to one side, climbed a
steep slope, scrambled up the side of a great rock, then with hands
clasped about her knees, sat looking away at the moonlit harbor that,
stretching away and away in that darkness, seemed never to end.

“Glorious!” Suddenly she sprang to her feet to swing her arms wide and to
drink in the cool air of night as some famished one fresh from the desert
might drink cold water.

“How perfect to live here,” she breathed. “Never too hot nor too cold,
and always, always, so beautiful!” And it was beautiful—jagged rocks
here, primeval forest there and, far as eye could see, the deep, dark,
mysterious waters of Superior.

Yet, even as she stood there, she saw, as in an evil dream, the threat.
For, from the far-off shores of Siskowit just then a distant red gleam
caught her eye.

“The fire!” she exclaimed breathlessly.

It was true, even as she watched, like the flash of a distant lighthouse,
there came a flare that increased in intensity for an instant, then went
black.

All too well she knew the meaning of that; those boys had worked hard,
but had not entirely won their battle.

A moment passed, then came a second flash. And after that another.

Then, of a sudden, the girl started. She had spied a movement in the
bushes close to her rock.

“Who—who’s there?” she demanded.

For the space of a second there came no answer. Then a voice said:

“Them is spruce trees. Dey go up in fire like dat—you have been dere—you
have seen. Dey is burning yet. And dey will burn. Dey will burn de whole
island. Oh, ya. Dese fires dey is bein’ set by somebody. Oh ya, dey iss.”

“Why?” the girl asked, almost in a whisper. “Why would anyone wish to set
a forest fire on this beautiful island?”

There came no answer, only a movement in the brush. The speaker, whoever
he might have been, was gone. A strange thrill ran up her spine.

But now the sound of distant music reached her ear, and, as she strained
her eyes, she caught the gleam of a moving light. It was over the water.

“The yacht,” she thought. “It is coming.” Once again she settled herself
comfortably on her rock to watch the boat’s light grow brighter and
brighter, to catch the rise and fall of music that appeared to sway with
the boat and at last to hear the deep, mysterious sound, the call of a
boat in the night.

“How often,” she thought, “that haunting sound has come drifting in out
of the night, the voice of a ship lost in the fog, or in distress on the
rocks. But tonight,” once again she stood up to fling her arms wide,
“Tonight it is a call of pure joy, a call to a grand good time on the
deck of a beautiful yacht. But then I wonder,” she dropped back to her
rock, to wonder some more.

It was true that once a boat docked anywhere on this friendly island, the
cottagers and lodge guests swarmed aboard. They were always welcome. But
she was not dressed for such an occasion. All her party clothes were on
shore. She looked at her smoke-browned slacks, at her blouse torn at the
sleeve, then murmured with a low laugh, “Invitation to the dance. But not
for me. I’ll be a spectator. They won’t even know I am here.”

It was a large white yacht that at last tied up at the dock.

Sounding out in the silent night and across the dark, mysterious bay that
lay beneath the stars, the music was enchanting.

The wail of violins, the tum-tum-tum of the bases, the organ-like roll of
a piano accordion all seemed to blend with the beauty of the night.

“It’s glorious!” Florence whispered.

At that instant once again her eyes caught and were held by that faint
red threat against the sky.

“The fire!” she exclaimed softly. “Must all this beauty vanish? No!” Her
hands were tight clinched now. “No! It must not. At all cost we must save
the island.”

But now there was a stir on the deck of the yacht. Something unusual was
about to happen. What that was, for the moment, she could not tell.

She gave herself over to speculation regarding the people on that boat.
Were they rich? Some of them must be. The yacht was magnificent in its
burnished brass and polished mahogany.

“Not all are rich,” she told herself. “Some are guests of honor, famous
people perhaps, artists, writers, musicians, dancers—”

Scarcely had she whispered this last word when the orchestra began the
low rhythmic notes of a gypsy song she knew all too well, and at once a
slim, spirit-like figure, clad in a gown that shone like silver in the
moonlight, glided out upon the deck and began to dance.

“Jeanne!” The sound that escaped Florence’s lips was almost a cry.
“Petite Jeanne! It can be no one else. No one can do those gypsy dances
so divinely.”

As she sat there entranced, listening to the enchanting music, watching
each gliding movement of the dancer, she became more and more convinced
that her good pal of other days, the little French girl, Petite Jeanne,
was really there within a stone’s throw of her, dancing as she had never
danced before.

“But why?” she asked herself. “Why?”

Jeanne, who had been adopted by gypsies, had at last found true kinfolks
in France. She had inherited an ancient castle. Florence believed her
rich. And yet here she was, dancing as in those old golden days when they
were all very poor and happy together.

Involuntarily Florence allowed her mind to drift back over days that were
gone. She saw Jeanne dancing with a bear, before the hedges of France,
saw her in the wilds of this very northland, and then in a poor tenement
of Chicago. She rejoiced with her again as she recalled her success and
triumph as a dancer in light opera.

“And now?” she whispered. She was unable to answer her own question, but
her heart yearned to know.

“Perhaps she is still rich,” she thought. “This may be her own yacht. She
may be dancing for her guests.” Of this she could not be sure. One
resolve she made at once, Jeanne should not be disturbed by an old friend
in soiled slacks.

“Very soon,” she thought, “the yacht will leave the dock, the music grow
faint in the distance, and Jeanne, like a spirit, will float away into
the night.”

“Like a spirit,” she repeated musingly. “Jeanne was always like that,
always kind, a great friend, but never quite like other humans.”

The dance went on. Again and again, in response to applause, the swaying
figure returned to the deck.

There came at last a time when neither applause nor bewitching music
could lure her from her retreat.

“She is gone,” Florence thought, in a dreamy mood, “disappeared down a
moonbeam.”

How true this was she was to know soon enough. The deck of the boat was
all aglow, but the broad dock was in the shadows. Hidden by these shadows
was a little group of onlookers—a cook from the lodge, two roustabouts, a
sailor or two. With them were Dave and Rufus. Gliding along in the
shadows a slender figure approached this group, whispered a question or
two, received her answers, then vanished into the night.

Two minutes later, to her great astonishment, Florence heard her name
called ever so softly:

“Florence! Florence! Where are you?”

The big girl thrilled to her fingertips, but did not answer at once.

“Florence!” again the low silvery voice called. “Where are you? It is I,
Petite Jeanne. I have come all this way to find you!”

“Here!” The big girl’s voice was husky. She was on her feet now. Tears of
joy were in her eyes. “Here. On the rock!”

“Ah!” Jeanne murmured, quoting from a very old book, “Lead me to a rock
that is higher than I.” And then they who had had so many adventures
together were in each other’s arms.




                               CHAPTER IV
                                PLUMDUM


“But Jeanne!” Florence exclaimed a half-hour later. “You can’t come with
us! You truly can’t!”

“Oh! Can I not?” Jeanne stood up slim and straight as a silver moonbeam.

“Of course not!” Florence tried to be firm. “We are going into a battle.
The island is on fire. It will be a battle of storm, flame and smoke. But
we must save our beautiful island.”

“And is it not my island?” Jeanne demanded. “Did I not live in a wrecked
ship off its very shores? And were you not my very good companion?”

“Yes,” Florence agreed, “but now you belong to France.”

“France,” the little French girl’s voice dropped, “In my so beautiful
France everyone is poor again. No rich American will rent my gloomy
castle. So—” she breathed, “So here I am!”

“You have rich friends,” Florence suggested, nodding toward the yacht.

“Oh these!” Jeanne tossed her fair head. “Yes, these are friends. They
are very kind indeed. They like me to dance so they bring me with them.

“Good people they are, too,” she added, more quietly. “Some are very
famous. One writes books, one paints pictures of great rocks, one goes to
cold, cold, countries to explore and one he is very rich.

“But you!” she exclaimed, “You are my friend of many, many days. It is in
the lines of our hands, it is written in the stars, that we shall be
together. Always and always!” Her voice rose.

“All—all right,” Florence surrendered. “Have you any clothes?”

“But yes!” the little French girl exclaimed, “I am prepared. In my locker
are slacks of midnight blue. And my blouses, they are orange. Like a
flame of fire are these.”

“Like a flame,” Florence laughed. “All too soon they will be like smoke.
Look!” Springing to her feet, she pointed down the bay, “See! There is
your flame!”

At that moment the red threat against the sky flared anew. Jeanne
shuddered. As for Florence, she was thinking of the boys back there
fighting the flames in the night, thinking, too, of the gay party on the
rich man’s yacht, of young men in white flannels and girls in evening
gowns. Then, down deep in her heart, a great wonder possessed her.

Of a sudden her thoughts were brought back to her immediate surroundings.
Bobbing up and down in the low bushes beneath the rock some creature came
racing toward them.

“Wha-what on earth is that?” Florence exclaimed.

“Oh! that’s Plumdum,” Jeanne cried. Sliding off the rocks, she gathered
some wriggling, woolly creature in her arms.

“We don’t let him out when I dance. He wants to dance and doesn’t know
how.”

“But Plumdum?” Florence exclaimed. “What is he?”

“Just my dog,” said Jeanne, holding him up to view. “My very good friend
Plumdum.”

“Funny name,” said Florence. “How do you spell it?”

“Oh, that,” Jeanne giggled, “I didn’t give him the name. It was a redcap
in a railroad station who gave it to him, though I guess he didn’t mean
to. He’s the one who told me how to spell it too. But I guess he didn’t
really know how, not really—”

“Jeanne,” Florence exploded, “What you’re saying doesn’t make sense!”

“I’m sorry,” Jeanne apologized, “I’ll tell you how it was. I had fallen
in love with this dog; saw him in a pet store window. He—he sort of
winked at me, so I just went in and bought him.”

“Of course,” Florence agreed.

“And then,” Jeanne heaved a sigh, “he didn’t have any name. Well I went
into the railway station and the redcap took the beast and tried to steer
him through the crowd. He kept dodging between people and under their
feet. At last the redcap got disgusted and said, ‘Miss, that thar dorg is
plumdum!’

“‘Is he?’ I asked. I was all excited. I thought that was his real name.
Guess _I_ was dumb. But I said, ‘How do you spell it?’ He said, ‘What
Miss?’ I said, ‘Plumdum.’ He said, ‘Miss, I ain’t never been no spellin’
champeen, but near as I can figger it’s P-l-u-m-d-u-m.’”

“He was trying to tell you your dog was plumb dumb,” Florence laughed.

“Yes, to be sure,” Jeanne answered. “All the same, that’s his name!”

“And does it fit?” asked Florence.

“Not always,” Jeanne replied slowly. “Sometimes he’s almost human.” This
last Florence was to learn in the days that were to come. In the drama of
one crowded hour Plumdum was to play an important role.

But now Florence sprang to her feet, “Come on!” she exclaimed. “If you’re
going with us you’ll have to get your things together, dark blue slacks,
orange blouses—everything. We’re going to Tobin’s Harbor.”

“Tonight?” Jeanne demanded.

“In an hour.”

“_Bon! Mon cher. Tout de suite!_” Jeanne was off the rocks and away.

Following slowly, Florence at last reached the docks. There among the
shadows she came upon a young man, little more than a boy. He was
standing there looking away at the midnight fire.

She had time to think, “Interesting profile,” then he turned around and
saw her.

“Hello, sister,” he said in a friendly voice. “Where did you come from?
What do you do here?”

“We take people from here to there and back again,” she laughed quietly.
“And,” she added, “sometimes we fight fires. Today we had a terrific
battle.”

“Fire? Where?” The young man seemed surprised.

“Look.” She led him to the opposite corner of the dock, “See that red
spot?”

“Fire, all right,” the other agreed. “Will they get it out?”

“Who knows?” There was a sombre note in the girl’s voice. “Just think!
All this beauty, and that fire!”

“I am thinking,” said the young man soberly. “Tell me about it.”

Florence did tell him, told of the day’s battle, told it with all the
drama and feeling of her emotional nature.

“Say-e-e!” the young man exclaimed. “That will be a grand spot on my
program! Will you come to New York?”

“New—New York!” she stammered, “On your program!”

“Sure,” he laughed, “I’m Tim O’Hara. I plan and prepare radio programs.
Just now I’m working on one to be called ‘Adventurers’ Club of the Air.’
Many people who have had a real adventure will get a trip to New York,
all expenses paid, and a grand chance to tell the story of their
adventures to the nation, coast to coast, seventy-nine stations. You’ve
had a real adventure, why not come?”

“Oh!” Florence gasped. Then, “No—no—I couldn’t. Not now. Perhaps not for
months. There’s going to be a battle, a terrific battle. I’m sure of it,
and we—we must do our part.”

“Say! That’s the spirit!” Tim voiced his approval in no uncertain tones.
“But you’ll come, in the end—I know you will. New York. Ever dream of
that great city?”

“Yes, yes, often.”

“And the radio? Coast to coast?”

“Yes, that too.”

“Then you’ll come and you’ll have much more to tell.”

“Will I?” The girl wondered and shuddered.

“Here’s my card.” He thrust a pasteboard square into her hand. “Guard it
with care.”

“Next to my heart!” she laughed as she thrust it deep into her blouse
pocket.

Then she caught Jeanne’s call, “Florence, where are you?”

“I’m off,” she breathed. “We sail at once—‘Ships that pass in the
night.’”

“Sometimes they meet again!” His voice was low. “Here’s hoping!”

At Tobin’s Harbor Florence experienced a new thrill. Though the hour was
near midnight, the small dock was crowded. “What of the fire? What about
the fire?” they demanded anxiously.

Close beside her, as she stood on the dock telling of the fire, was a
slender woman—a fisherman’s wife—listening intently. In her arms she held
a child. A second child tugged at her skirts. Her all, Florence knew
well, was on Isle Royale. Across the narrow bay was her spotless cabin
and before the cabin a neat fish house and many nets on reels. She and
her husband had toiled hard to build their happy home, and now, if the
fire came, all would be lost.

Standing on the other side of her, leaning on a cane, was a man well past
eighty. Every summer for forty years he had made a pilgrimage to Isle
Royale. His cabin stood overlooking the rocks on the Point.

“There are scores like him,” the girl thought. “Some young, some old. If
the fire reaches their cabins, their joyous summers will be at an end.”
Her gaze moved slowly across the placid waters of the long, narrow bay.
Primeval forest, dark spruce and fir, beautiful white birch ghosts in the
moonlight lined the shores. Suddenly something catching her eye caused
her to start. Beyond the dark fringe of evergreen that lined the distant
horizon was a long, thin line of red. From time to time, like a finger of
fate, a pencil of this red glow shot skyward, then faded into the night.

“Dave, look!” she sought his attention. “The fire!”

“Beauty and a threat!” he murmured with feeling. “We must do what we can
for these people and their island.”




                               CHAPTER V
                             NIGHT SIGNALS


Three days later the _Wanderer_ was at Houghton on the mainland. Events
had moved rapidly. A strong gale had driven the fire on the now flaming
island beyond the control of the small band of camp workers who had
volunteered anew to fight it. Rapidly formed plans for a battle on a
large scale had already been laid. The _Iroquois_ had been taken off the
run to the island. It was to carry fire fighters and their supplies to
hastily constructed camps on Isle Royale shores.

“That gives us a break,” Florence, a born optimist, exclaimed.

“It would,” Dave said, “if anyone wanted to go to the island, but this
fire will scare them away. Besides—” he hesitated.

“Besides what?” Florence demanded.

“Nothing much,” Dave looked away, “only, do you remember that big man who
was angry because we went into Siskowit?”

“Yes, what—”

“I met him on the street today. He said, ‘I hear you’ve only a sixty-day
temporary permit.’ I said, ‘They’ll renew it,’ and he said, ‘Oh, yeah?
That’s what you think!’”

“And now you don’t think you’ll get it?” Florence asked soberly.

“I don’t know what to think,” Dave replied. “One thing’s sure, if they
don’t renew it, we’re sunk.”

The moment they arrived at Houghton, Florence wrote her grandfather.

  “We’ve been betrayed. We’ve been led into an unwise investment, and it
  was your money. Even in good times there are few passengers to the
  island. Now there is a fire, and no one will come. I can’t tell you how
  sorry I am. There isn’t a chance that we shall more than break even. Of
  course, with this threat of fire there is opportunity for service. And
  how it will be appreciated!”

Continuing, she wrote of the kindly fisher-folk whose cabins nestled
among the trees, and of the old time cottagers who made the island their
summer home.

  “If we stand by to help them off the island in case disaster threatens,
  it will be, I think, a great service. But will it pay? What shall we
  do? It’s your boat. You must decide.”

The answer came by return mail. “Stand by to serve,” her grandfather
wrote.

  “An opportunity to serve where service is appreciated is a gift of God.

  “Just now something is happening to you and, if I read your letter
  correctly, you are taking it just as it should be taken. And that is
  all that matters. Might I add that life need never be a bitter
  struggle. It may always be a glorious adventure!”

There his letter ended.

Florence read it, her heart swelling, “Good old granddaddy,” she
murmured. “I only hope we may yet find a way out.” She was thinking now
of money.

The very next day, just as darkness was falling, the _Wanderer_ and her
gallant crew found themselves once more in a precarious situation on Isle
Royale. They were at Chippewa Harbor. Here a brave little fishing family
had taken its stand against all sorts of adversity and had won. Their
neat home, their stout little dock, and three tiny tourist cabins showed
all this. Of all the people on the island, the Carlsons of Chippewa
Harbor had interested Florence most. Perhaps this was because, unlike
other fisher-folk of the island, they did not leave when winter’s ice
threatened to close their harbor. Instead, they ordered many sacks of
flour, sugar and potatoes. To these were added hams and slabs of bacon,
cases of milk, fruit and vegetables and all else that might be needed.

Then, with bleak winter winds blowing, they settled down to six months of
isolation. During all that time, boats neither came nor went. They were
there alone. Isle Royale was their home.

Working like beavers, they cut logs for tourist cabins, mended their nets
and made all needed preparations for a successful season.

Besides the fisherman and his wife there were Ve and Vi, as they called
themselves, girls of Florence’s own age, and some younger brothers—a
happy family.

Chippewa Harbor, too, was a spot that had made many a heart beat faster.
A break in the Island’s rocky wall, it stretched back through a narrow
channel to a broader bay, where giant spruce trees towered above massive
palisades. Here, in the still hour of evening, one might rest on his oars
to watch the sun go down over the dark green treetops and dream,
transported to another world.

Ah, yes, Florence was ready to fight for Chippewa Harbor. And at this
moment it was in great need of a champion. For by great misfortune, this
would be the first tiny settlement to be reached by the fire if it came,
and at that moment it was coming fast. They could see it crawling,
leaping, rushing along the ridges. They could hear it snapping and
roaring not two miles away. So sudden had been its advance that no fire
fighters had yet arrived. Only the _Wanderer_, with her one small pump,
was standing by.

The entrance to Chippewa Harbor is narrow and rocky. A storm was roaring
in from the lake. In an hour it might be impossible for the _Wanderer_ to
leave the harbor. Perhaps, too, in that hour, the roaring fire would be
upon the fishing village.

“I think,” said the fisherman, scanning first the fire, then the sky,
“that you better put out into open water.”

“But your home, your cabins, everything you have!” Dave protested. “Our
pump may save them!”

The fisherman shrugged his shoulders, but did not speak. About him was
gathered his family—his wife, Ve and Vi, and three small sons. They, too,
were strangely silent.

“No,” said Dave. “We stay!”

Darkness fell. Only the leaping flames lighted the dark waters of the
harbor. It was a dramatic moment. Even Jeanne, always so full of life and
chatter, was silent. Indeed, during the days that had passed, Jeanne had
seemed a little strange. She took small part in their planning for the
future. It was almost as if she were an honored guest aboard the
_Wanderer_. The time was to come, however, when she and Plumdum would do
their bit. But for the moment, even the curly-haired dog, awed by the
roaring lake waters close by and the glare of the fire some distance
away, was silent.

“Look!” Florence exclaimed in sudden consternation, as she pointed toward
the crest of Greenstone Ridge that, rising a full three hundred feet,
extends from one end of Isle Royale to the other. “Look up there! A fresh
fire is starting!”

“Another fire,” the fisherman murmured hoarsely, “how do they start?”

At once Florence recalled those mysterious words spoken in the
dark—“‘Dese fires dey iss bein’ set.’” Were they?

“It seems to blink,” said Dave. “Strange sort of fire, I’d say. That—why,
that’s not a fire!” he exclaimed excitedly. “At least not a forest fire.
It’s a campfire. Looks like a signal fire as well. Watch! It’s gone. Now
it’s there again. Watch! And now—say! They’re signaling in Morse code.
Wait! Let me see if I can get their message!”

And so with the forest fire not two miles away creeping toward them and
roaring at them, the little group, unable for the moment to do anything
to save themselves or property, stood silent, watching, completely
forgetting their own troubles because of their interest in others who
might be in distress.

As for Florence, she was thinking of that message which had become deeply
impressed upon her mind. The message, as you may recall, had been
concerned with a red-and-black boat, a gray-haired man, and a girl of
sixteen.

This message once more passed through the girl’s mind, “Important! To all
lodgekeepers and captains of ships touching at Isle Royale. Be on the
lookout for a red-and-black boat. Tall, gray-haired man, girl of sixteen
on board. Important! Be on the lookout!”

“Is this their campfire up on that rocky ridge?” she asked herself.

“Yes.” It was Dave who spoke. “They must be in trouble. Their message is
just one word, ‘Help!’”

“But what could have happened?” demanded Vi Carlson, one of the daughters
of the fisherman. “All they’ve got to do is come down the ridge.”

“Yes, but if one of them were sick or injured,” Florence’s brow wrinkled.
“And see!” she cried in fresh alarm. “There _is_ a tongue of flame
farther down the ridge. There is a second fire after all. If no one goes
to help them they may be trapped.”

“We might go, you and I,” Dave suggested. “I’ll get a square of canvas.
Might need it to make a stretcher. Then we’ll be off.” He hurried away.

“There’s a trail to Lake Ritchie and a moose path up the ridge,” Ve
Carlson, the other daughter of the fisherman volunteered. “I—I’ll show
you the way. You’d never find the way by yourselves. Come on,” Ve was
off.

For a time, guided by the gleam of a flashlight, they marched along in
silence. Once a moose sprang from the trail to go crashing through the
brush. “A thousand moose on the island,” Florence thought. “They may all
be destroyed by the fire.”

“Isle Royale has always been my home,” Vi broke the silence at last.

“Always, winter and summer?” Florence asked.

“Two winters we went to the mainland. Since then, fish have been cheap.
Times have been hard. We couldn’t afford to go. They sent us a teacher,
so we stayed here. We’ve graduated from high school,” Vi laughed low, “my
sister and I, in a log cabin school.

“We go up here,” she said at last. “The moose trail is terrible, but
we—we’ll make it.”

And they did. With the beacon campfire as their guide, they climbed until
at last, with a cry of victory, they burst in upon the astonished and
overjoyed campers.

“A red-and-black boat, a gray-haired man and a sixteen-year-old girl,”
Florence quoted, scarcely realizing what she was saying.

“You’ve got our number,” laughed a tall, thin, gray-haired man. “But how
did you know all this?”

“They’ve been broadcasting about you for days,” said Florence.

“See, Grandfather!” the strange girl exclaimed. “I told you they’d find
us.”

“Yes, and for once I’m glad to be found.” The man laughed low. “This is
growing a bit thick—a fire to the right of us, one to the left of us, and
I not able to walk a step. Badly sprained ankle,” he explained.

“You see,” he went on, “Beth and I decided to make a secret visit to this
beautiful island.”

“Grandfather’s always so busy,” the girl put in. “So we just ran away.”

“Today was the first time we knew of the fire,” said the gray-haired man.
“Been on the other side of the island. When we saw it we got all excited,
and I took the wrong kind of step. So here we are. Looks dangerous to me.
Think we’d better get going?”

“No-o,” Dave looked away to the southwest. “It’s going to storm. Getting
down’s going to be slow. The fire won’t get here for three hours at
best.”

“So we’d better weather the storm in the little tent I carried on my back
for just this purpose.” The old man smiled.

“That’s it,” Dave agreed.

“You may have been wondering,” the gray-haired man said, after the tent
had been set up and they were comfortably seated inside, “why Beth didn’t
go for help, when she found I could not walk properly. Truth is, she
refused to go.” He chuckled.

“Why should I?” the girl demanded, “The fire was coming our way. There
was no one on our side of the island. We had been alone there. I did see
a light down on your side but knew nothing about you people. Besides,
these trails are terrible.”

“Mostly no trails,” Florence agreed.

“I might have been lost in some swamp. The fire might have come while I
was gone,” the girl shuddered. “So, I stayed. At long last, I might have
been able to help him down.”

“Brave girl,” the old man placed a hand on her shoulder.

The changing scenes that passed before the eyes of the small group on
Greenstone Ridge during the next hour would never be forgotten. Below
them, seeming so near that they could reach out and touch them, were the
lights of the _Wanderer_ and the fisherman’s cabin shining through the
darkness. At a greater distance, brilliant and menacing against the
blackness of evergreen forests and water, was the fire. Creeping slowly,
flaring up here, dying down there, but ever moving forward, it threatened
in time to destroy Chippewa Harbor’s little world. Back of all this,
rolling in across the waters, was a storm. Now faint flashes of light
were seen. Low rumbles were heard.

“If only it would rain hard!” Florence wished.

But what was this? Across the waters, slowly moving lights approached
Chippewa.

“Hurray!” Dave shouted, as he read their meaning. “It’s a ship. It must
be Captain Frey and his boys! Reinforcements!” Fresh hope shone in his
eyes.

Scarcely had the lights of the newly-arrived ship blended with those of
the _Wanderer_ than there came a vivid flash, a roar of thunder, and
large, cold raindrops began to fall.

“It’s the end,” breathed Florence, “the end of our battle with the fire.”

“No,” said the gray-haired man, wiser in these things than the girl knew,
“it is not the end, only a truce. The battle will be renewed.”

How right he was the girl was soon to know. The rain did not last long.
It made little impression on the blazing spruce trees. The wind changed,
however, driving the fire back, and for the time being, Chippewa Harbor
was safe.

Two hours later, after a hard but successful struggle to bring the
crippled man back to civilization, Florence climbed wearily into her bunk
for a few snatches of sleep.




                               CHAPTER VI
                                 CHIPS


Early as it was, when she came on deck next morning Florence found the
slim, gray-haired man in a steamer chair.

“Now that we’ve found you,” she said with a laugh, “what do we do with
you?”

“Just anything,” he smiled.

“That’s easy.”

“Where do you go from here,” he asked, “and what do you do?”

“We touch at the old lighthouse, where we tell the fishermen that the
fire is pretty bad, but that we know hundreds of men are coming to fight
it, and we feel sure they’ll win.”

“And after that?” He was still smiling.

“Rock Harbor Lodge is next. We tell them the same thing. Then Tobin’s
Harbor. We’ll tell them not to worry; that if the fire threatens them,
we’ll be right there to take them off.”

“And what do you get for all this?” he asked.

“Nothing,” she smiled back at him. “That is, no money—just
satisfaction—heaps and heaps of satisfaction.”

“Then,” he looked at her in a puzzling manner, “after you’ve done these
acts of kindness, you might run us round to McCargo’s Cove and pick up
our small boat. We left it there. You shall be paid in cash for this
service,” he added with a laugh.

“And then?” she queried.

“Do you return to the mainland?”

“We must, for fuel and possible passengers.”

“Then we’ll ride there with you. More money!” he laughed happily. “Why,
you’ll be rolling in wealth!”

“At least,” she agreed, “we can pay for our fuel, and that’s something!”

As they made the rounds of fishing villages and lodges that day, it was
the same old story—worried, anxious faces and whispered rumors of
disaster for all of them in the near future. This brought the
_Wanderer’s_ crew a harvest of a sort. Lodge guests were anxious to leave
the island. It became evident that when the boat headed for Houghton its
decks would be lined with paying passengers. This brought a happy smile
to the big girl’s face. “Perhaps,” she was thinking, “things will not be
so bad after all.”

As for Jeanne, she was the life of the party. Donning a pair of coveralls
miles too large for her, she staged a ludicrous dance she called “The
Deckhands Promenade.”

When at last guests dragged a fiddle and a guitar from their baggage and
sent a wailing, thumping tune drifting across the dark waters, she
disappeared, to come popping out in her silver robe, and to execute a
true gypsy dance that charmed her small audience.

“Jeanne, you are a grand prize!” Florence exclaimed when she had
finished. “If only there were no fire, and this were a regular summer,
you would charm all those land-loving people into a visit to our island
just to see you dance!”

“Ah, well,” Jeanne replied soberly, “perhaps I shall yet dance before the
flames and lead them into the waters where they will drown.”

“Yes,” Florence agreed, with a laugh, “the way the Pied Piper led the
rats into the sea.”

Truly, things were looking up a little for young Skipper Dave and his
crew. One thing was disturbing. Wherever they docked they heard this
complaint, hundreds of men were arriving to fight the fire, the
_Iroquois_ was bringing them, but there was lack of organization and very
little was being accomplished.

“If only Chips was here,” said a grizzled fisherman, as Dave and Florence
left his dock. Strangely enough, they heard this again and again, always
spoken by old men and with great respect, “If only Chips was here. If
only Chips—”

Dave exclaimed at last, “I’d sure like to be that man Chips! Wonder if
he’s real, or only a myth.”

“Wait and see,” said Florence.

If Florence had hoped that the gray-haired man whom they had rescued in
such a dramatic manner, with his granddaughter, from Greenstone ridge,
would, before leaving the boat, reveal his identity, she was doomed to
disappointment. After paying his bill he gave directions for having his
boat and other belongings taken ashore, then lost himself in the crowd
that lined the dock seeking information regarding the fire.

“We haven’t seen the last of him,” Dave prophesied. “He wasn’t on the
island just for a vacation, you may depend upon that.”

Was Dave right? What would that mean to their young lives if he were. To
these questions Florence could form no answers.

“Took in one hundred and forty dollars this trip,” Dave exulted as he
walked into town with Florence. “First thing we know we’ll be making
money!”

Would they? For once Florence dared hope. Perhaps this fire was a
blessing in disguise. With the _Iroquois_ off the run, with army officers
and park officials in a hurry to reach the island, and with a few daring
souls still ready to spend a short vacation on the island, it did seem
that they might hope. And yet, before nightfall hope had vanished.

It was two hours after they had docked. Florence was busy tidying up her
galley when a gay party of six, three men and their wives, all attired in
the latest sports togs, appeared on the dock.

“Is this the boat that goes to Isle Royale?” they asked.

“Yes, but—” Florence hesitated, “perhaps you haven’t heard—the island’s
on fire.”

“Oh, yes, we’ve heard,” one of the women enthused. “That makes it all the
more exciting. When do we sail?”

“Tomorrow evening at eight o’clock is our regular time.”

“Six round trip tickets,” the girl was thinking. “Sixty dollars. And
perhaps—yes, there were three young officers coming down the dock—ninety
dollars. Wonderful!”

But wait! There was a disturbance—the stout man who had taken such a
dislike to Florence and Dave that first day of the fire, drew one of the
six would-be passengers aside. Florence did not hear what he said, but,
with a sinking heart, she saw him pointing to a large speedboat tied up
at a smaller dock.

The man returned. There was a conference among the six prospective
passengers. Florence caught only the words, “Speedboat! How thrilling!”

Turning to Florence, the little lady with the shining eyes said in an
apologetic voice, “I—we’re so sorry, dear. We’ve decided to take the
speedboat. Think of it! We can be over there in two hours, and it will be
so thrilling!”

Florence made no reply. What was there to say? There was a sinking
feeling at the pit of her stomach. Her shoulders drooped. “So that’s it!”
she thought. “That man’s going into competition with us. He’s got
influence. He’ll see that our license to carry passengers is not renewed.
And yet,” her body stiffened, “he can’t keep us from serving the people
of the island. We can still stand by.”

Then a strange thing happened. As the sunlight slowly receded from the
summit of Copper Range, a short, stout man appeared on the dock. To
Florence his dress seemed odd. A broad-brimmed black hat, blue shirt,
overalls, cut off six inches from the ground and not hemmed, and high
topped boots of coarse leather clothed the man. What he said gave her a
start.

“I’m Chips.”

“Mr. Chips!”

“Just plain Chips,” the man corrected. “I want to go to Isle Royale.”

“Yes,” the girl exclaimed. “They want you and need you. The island is in
flames.”

“I know. When do we sail?” Chips was all business.

“Why, ri-right away.” Florence took one bold fling at life. What would
Dave say? Turning about, she set her boat whistle waking echoes among the
sun-tipped hills.

Dave came on the run. “What’s the rumpus? What’s up?” he demanded.

“This,” she said, with as much dignity as she could command, “this is
Chips. The island needs him. We’re sailing as soon as possible, that is—”
her voice trailed off, “if you’re agreed.”

Dave said, “O. K. by me,” and it was done. One passenger. Ten dollars.

This was not the last unusual incident of that day—there was more to
come. Chips had gone for his luggage. Florence was slowly pacing the deck
when a girl shorter and broader than herself appeared before her on the
dock.

“I am Katie,” said the girl. Florence knew she must be a Finlander.

“Katie who?” Florence smiled.

“I am Katie Eskelund,” said the girl. “And I am going to Isle Royale.”

“What place on Isle Royale?” Florence asked.

“Siskowit Bay.” The girl lowered a heavy blanket roll to the dock.

“She’s strong,” Florence thought, “strong as a man. How she could send a
boat through the water!”

“Siskowit?” she said. “There are no women there. Only men and boys.”

“My brother is there,” said Katie. “He is fighting fire. I shall stay
with him. I can fight fire.”

“Why! They won’t let you,” Florence exclaimed. “It’s a boys’ camp!”

“So-o,” the Finnish girl’s face clouded. “But my brother is there,” she
insisted. “We are twins.”

“Oh!” Florence had some notion of what it meant to be a twin. She wanted
to help this girl. But how?

Seized by a sudden inspiration she demanded, “Can you cook? Can you make
pasties?”

“Oh, yes! Very good pasties.”

Pasties! How Florence’s mouth watered. Good little turnover pies all
filled with meat, made only as the people of strange little Finland knew
how.

Just then Dave came up from below. “Dave,” Florence smiled in spite of
herself, “do you think we could use a cook on the _Wanderer_?”

“We—we might,” Dave seemed a little puzzled. “Come to think of it,” he
added after a brief pause, “it would help. Looks to me as if we were
stepping into something rather big. May be a day-and-night affair before
we’re through. You’re O.K. for a cook but not twenty-four hours a day.
And Jeanne, she’s fine, but a bit of a butterfly, don’t you think?”

“Perhaps,” Florence agreed, “anyway I want you to meet Katie. She’s no
butterfly.” Katie grinned good-naturedly. “She wants to be our cook. She
can make pasties.”

“Pasties. Oh! Boy!” Dave grinned. “Sure. Take her on.”

“I can make bread, too,” Katie volunteered eagerly. “Saffron buns and
everything!”

Florence did not know what saffron buns were, but decided she could stand
them at least once.

“All right,” she said, with a note of finality, “you are hired. Then
perhaps you will see your brother now and then. You shall be our cook.
That is,” her voice dropped, “if you want to.”

For answer, Katie Eskelund tumbled her blanketroll over the rail. That is
how the _Wanderer_ came by a new cook. And she was a cook indeed!

At eleven o’clock that same night Florence awoke. She was wide-awake. A
feeling that all was not well disturbed her. What could it be? Were they
having engine trouble? Had there been tampering on board? No, the motor
throbbed sweetly. Was there a storm? Only a choppy sea that should have
rocked her to sleep.

A breath of cold air brushed her cheek. Her stateroom door was open. How
come? She sat up. The roll of the boat had banged it open. But look! She
now stared away at the black waters. Had she caught a gleam of light out
there? It did not seem probable. They were halfway across the lake,
thirty-five miles from anywhere. And yet—yes, there it was! She saw it
plainly now.

“It blinks!” she exclaimed aloud. “Distress signal! Oh, dear!” she
sighed. “It seems as if the whole world’s in trouble.”

Hurriedly drawing on dressing gown and slippers, she climbed out into the
chill air of night to find Dave in the pilothouse.

“Dave,” she said, “there’s a light out there. It blinks as if someone
were in trouble. We—We’ll have to put about and go to his aid, won’t we?”

“Yes, I—I suppose so.”

“I’m going to make a big pot of coffee.” Dave twisted the ship’s wheel,
turning the _Wanderer_ toward the signaling light.




                              CHAPTER VII
                                RESCUED


As the _Wanderer_ came nearer to the blinking signal of distress, it
seemed more and more certain that it was approaching some light-buoy and
not a boat at all. When at last, however, the beams of the ship’s lights
reached the spot, Florence smiled in spite of herself, for the vessel in
distress was none other than the speedboat, that, having robbed them of
their passengers, had so joyously left the harbor hours before.

“Well, look at that!” Dave exploded, as he signaled for slow speed ahead.

“Oh, it’s you! It’s the _Wanderer_!” a shrill voice screamed.

“That’s the little lady who was going to be _so_ thrilled,” Florence
remarked.

“She doesn’t seem thrilled now,” said Dave.

“Probably chilled instead,” the girl shuddered.

And chilled it was. “Just think!” one woman exclaimed, as she climbed
stiffly on board. “The motor’s dead. Probably it’s going to storm. The
cold night. We—”

“And not a blanket, nor bite to eat,” added another. “It was perfectly
frightful.”

“Climb right up and come into the cabin,” Florence invited cheerily.
“I’ve got a roaring fire and gallons of coffee!”

“Coffee! Hot coffee! Man! Oh, man!” exclaimed the leader of the party.
“Take us to it!”

“It was my batteries,” grumbled the stout speedboat man, as he crowded
into the cabin after them.

“Started out with bum batteries. That’s b-a-d.” It was Chips who spoke.
“But I got some that belong to pumps,” he volunteered. “I’ll lend ’em to
you.”

“Not for taking us on to Isle Royale,” exclaimed the leader of the party.
“We’re through! No more speedboats for us. We stay right here. What do
you say?”

The shouts of approval which rose at this suggestion warmed Florence’s
heart.

“What’s more,” the leader fairly bristled, “that money we paid you for
the trip!” he shouted at the speedboat man. “Shell out, or we’ll sue you
for damages. That money goes to this young skipper and her crew.” He
turned to Florence.

“I’m not the skipper,” she protested.

“It’s all the same. What do you say?” he turned on the speedboat man.

“All right!” The man held out a roll of bills.

“Here you are, sister.” After adding one bill, the leader transferred the
roll to Florence. “A bit extra for doughnuts and coffee and—and as a
penalty for our insulting a real boat.” At this they all laughed.

An hour later the _Wanderer_ was once more rolling on her way, and
Florence was preparing for ten more winks of sleep. Before her eyes
closed, however, her mind ran dreamily to the mysterious Chips and the
more mysterious gray-haired man and the girl they had rescued from
Greenstone Ridge.

Dawn found the _Wanderer_ and its passengers at the island. Once they
arrived, they were not long in discovering that the man, Chips, had not
been over-advertised. Born and bred in the north woods, a natural
director of men, he inspired confidence and hope everywhere.

Scarcely had he left the boat when he asked, “Where’s your map? Now where
are the fires? There are hundreds of men on the island. Where are they?
That’s good! This is bad. Where are the patrol boats? Where’s the
_Iroquois_? Move these men. Put pumps there. We’ll make a stand across
here: Lake Ritchie, Chickenbone Lake, and McCargo’s Cove. That line must
hold. This end of the island must be saved at all cost. See?”

Everyone did see at once; and little by little order was being restored.

“You’ve saved us,” a bearded cottager gripped Florence’s hand. “You young
people of the _Wanderer_ did it. You brought us Chips. You’ve stood by.
We’ll not forget.”

Warmed by this speech and glowing with hope, Florence turned to Dave and
exclaimed, “We’ll win now. I know it!”

“Win what?” Dave grinned good-naturedly.

“We’ll save the island.”

“Oh, that. I always knew we would.” Dave laughed.

And yet, would they? After one long, sober thought, Florence was not so
sure. There were rumors of a third fire, started several miles from the
first two, near Tompsonite Bay, on the farther end of the island.

“Are these fires truly being set?” the girl asked herself. “And if they
are, why?” For the moment she found no answer.

After unloading a few groceries at Rock Harbor, they went pop-popping
round Schoville’s Point to Tobin’s Harbor Landing, then round to Belle
Isle at the north side of the island. Everywhere there was talk of fire,
but to Florence’s growing astonishment she caught no word suggesting that
the fires might have been set. At last, she all but dismissed the thought
from her mind. But not for long.

Isle Royale is forty miles long. The east end broken up into points is
like the fingers on a man’s hand. Blake’s Point, which forms the long
middle finger, extends far out into Lake Superior. It is here that sturdy
fishermen mumble a prayer on nights of storm and fog, for the roar of
breaking waves is like the roar of the sea, and great gray walls seem to
reach out hands to drag them in.

Once, so we are told, a freighter, carried away by a terrible storm,
crushed head on against this wall, and sank. She was loaded with canned
salmon. For a long time after that the fishermen caught canned salmon in
their nets.

On this day as the _Wanderer_ rounded this point there was no storm. A
lazy breeze pushed a thin, gray haze before it. A seagull soared high. A
wild duck swimming before their boat, eyed them for a moment, then rose
to go flapping away. Off to the left, perhaps a mile, some objects, a
little grayer than the haze, appeared to glide back and forth across the
water.

“What is it?” Jeanne asked in surprise.

“The Phantom Fisherman,” Florence said with a low laugh. “He is always
there when there is a fog. When you come near him, he fades away into
deeper fog.”

“How strange!” said Jeanne, charmed with this note of mystery.

“Probably trolling for lake trout,” said the practical Dave. “There’s a
reef out there they call ‘Five Foot’ because it comes within five feet of
the surface.”

“The Phantom Fisherman,” Jeanne repeated dreamily.

And so, gliding along between narrow rocky islands, they came once more
to Tobin’s Landing. Here they meant to spend the night, and perhaps all
the next day. There was a suggestion of storm in the air. A storm from
the southwest meant fanned flames and added peril to all. Their great
command at this moment appeared to be, “Stand by to serve!”

At Tobin’s harbor all was peace. In this snug little bay the wind had
gone to rest. As evening came, the water was like glass. Here spruce and
balsam, growing down to the very water’s edge, cast dark green shadows,
and there, like fairy maidens in filmy dresses, white birches appeared to
bend over and look down into the water’s clear depths.

When the gong sounded for the evening meal, savory odors greeted the crew
of the _Wanderer_. Katie’s pasties were all that the heart might desire.
The crust melted in one’s mouth and the meat was done to a turn. When it
came to her saffron buns, opinion was divided. Jeanne, ever fond of new
experiences, pronounced their strange flavor “delicious!” Florence ate
them in brave silence, while Dave turned his attention to “good old army
bread.”

“Anyway,” Florence said in a low tone, “Katie is a dear, and she’ll be a
great help.”

“Yes,” Dave agreed. “And if we’re ever one man short, she can pinch-hit
for the best of us.”

As darkness began to fall, weary from the night’s adventure and the day’s
toil, Florence sought her berth. But Jeanne, who, like the crickets and
katydids, always sang best at night, went on the dock in search of some
new and interesting adventure.

She found it in the form of a man with a mass of tangled gray hair and
very bright eyes, who sat on the dock, staring dreamily at the moon.

“One doesn’t see the fire tonight,” he said as he rose, and bowing
politely, offered her a seat beside him.

“It’s there all the same,” Jeanne said, as she dropped into a chair.

“Of what do you speak?” asked the old man.

“The fire,” said Jeanne. “It’s like some big, red-faced giant, hiding
behind the hills. Bye and bye it will pop up all of a sudden and roar at
us.”

“I shouldn’t wonder,” said the man, with a chuckle, “but then, why worry
about tomorrow? When you are my age you’ll know there may be no
tomorrow!”

“No tomorrow?” Jeanne tried to think what that might be like and failed.

“Tell me,” she exclaimed, as if to break the spell, “This is a land of
primeval forests. It should be one of ghosts, fairies, elves, just any
little people. Are there no legends about it?”

“Yes, one,” said the old man.

“Tell me,” said Jeanne.

“Have you seen Monument Rock?” the old man asked.

“No.”

“You must.”

“Good. I shall,” said Jeanne.

“The legend is about Monument Rock,” said the old man. “It is just over
yonder. If it were daytime I might point it out to you—the rock, I mean.

“You see,” he settled back in his place, “before the white man came, no
one lived on the island, that is, hardly anyone.

“Indians came in their great canoes to hunt and to crack away rocks and
gather great copper nuggets which they beat into spear points and
arrowheads. But when the dark whispering trees cast their shadows on the
bay they seemed to hear voices saying: ‘This is no fit place for man to
live. This is the home of all island gods.’ And always they hurried to
their canoes and went paddling away. That is,” his voice seemed to trail
off, “almost always.” From somewhere far away a faint echo murmured
“Almost always.”

For a time they sat there, the aged man and the blonde-haired girl, lost
in meditation, contemplating the beauty of the night.

“Ah,” the old man breathed at last. “It is magnificent, all this. God
made it glorious and man has done little to mar it.

“Once,” his voice grew mellow, “a few years back, when there were more
people here and there were joyous young people with us, we held a night
party on the little island, just over there.

“Those young people sang beneath the stars.” His voice was low—“They sang
as no one had sung before, sang to life, beauty and joy, to God, who is
all these.

“And then,” he heaved a deep sigh, “we made a great bonfire. The wood was
dry. There was not a breath of air. The flames rose straight
up—up—up—till they reached the stars. We were in touch with Heaven.”

“And then?” Jeanne breathed.

“As the flames touched the stars, someone in a boat coming down the bay
started music. What kind? I do not recall. Someone was playing Kreisler’s
‘Old Refrain.’ Ah,” he breathed, “it was the final touch.

“Late that night,” his voice dropped, “I threw myself on my cot and said,
‘Why should I live longer? This is life’s great moment!’

“And yet,” his voice rose again, “there is more of life—much more. And
the way leads up, always upward toward the stars.

“It is late. I must be going.” Springing to his feet, the old man
vanished into the night.

“What a strangely glorious old man!” Jeanne mused, as Dave came up. “And,
oh!” she cried, “he was going to tell me the legend of Monument Rock!”

“He is Doctor Emery,” said Dave. “They call him ‘Dean of the Island.’
Perhaps he will tell you that story tomorrow.”

“Perhaps,” Jeanne answered.

“And yet,” she thought to herself, “it could not be half so charming as
it would have been, told here beneath the stars!”

As Jeanne crept softly to her berth in Florence’s stateroom, Plumdum gave
a low “yip—yip.” He was silenced at once, but Florence, wakened from her
dreams, did not fall asleep for some time.

As she listened to the sounds of the night, the low tweet-tweet of the
night bird, the swish-swish of a moose swimming the bay and the distant
howl of a bush wolf, her mind was crowded with thoughts that for the
moment seemed not connected at all.

There were the gray-haired old man and his granddaughter whom they had
rescued from Greenstone Ridge. Who was he? And would they meet again?
There was the big man whose speedboat had failed. Would he try again?
Would their license be renewed, or would this man put an end to their
work as passenger carriers? And the fires? Were they under control? Dared
she hope this? She dared not hope. Why had the voice in the night said
these fires had been set?

“Why would they?” she whispered. “How could they?”

Suddenly, as if in answer to her whisper, a voice broke the silence of
the night. “Ya. Dese fires dey iss bein’ set. Dey iss—no doubt about dat.
But who is setting dem? Dat’s de question.”

“The same voice,” Florence almost said aloud. Springing from her berth
barefooted, in pajamas, she dashed out onto the deck to send the gleam of
her flashlight far and wide.

“There is no one on the water,” she whispered. Shuddering, she crept back
beneath the blankets.

A moment later she heard footsteps on deck. At first she thought it must
be the mysterious man. As she listened, however, she recognized Dave’s
substantial tread.

“Florence,” he spoke through the latticed window, “we’ve been going it
rather strong of late. Guess we’ll take a half-day off. If you and Jeanne
have anything to do, you might go at it in the morning. We won’t leave
here before noon.”

“Good!” she exclaimed, “we’ll go on some sort of a hike. I’m aching for a
chance to stretch my legs. They get all cramped up here on deck.”




                              CHAPTER VIII
                            MYSTERIOUS YOUTH


Early next day, Florence and Jeanne rowed across the bay to a small dock
marked, “Monument Rock Trail.”

After tying up their boat they took up the trail that, now winding
beneath sweet smelling cedar and balsam, and now passing over a swamp
spanned by shaky logs, at last brought them to the foot of a ridge. Here
they started climbing toward the crest.

Some half-way up they made an abrupt turn, to find themselves facing a
mass of towering rock that, like the tall chimney of some burned
building, rose to the very tree tops.

“Monument Rock,” Jeanne whispered. Something of that spell cast over her
by the “Dean of the Island” recurred now. “It’s like a headless man, that
rock,” she said in awed voice. “A man with hands folded across his
knees.”

“That’s just like the legend!” Florence exclaimed.

“Oh, do you know it?” Jeanne was pleased.

“It goes like this,” Florence began. “In the early days Indians seldom
came to live here. It was, they said, the home of all island gods. If men
came here to live they would meet with disaster.”

“Did any of them ever try it?” Jeanne asked.

“Yes,” Florence smiled and nodded. “This one! ‘Sitting Cloud’ they called
him. He’s still sitting, you see.”

“Sitting Cloud,” Jeanne said in a small voice.

“Yes. You see, like lots of other people, he didn’t believe in gods, so
he came here to live. The hunting was good. There were caribou, lynx and
beaver in those days. He traded lumps of copper to others of his tribe
and got on very well indeed.”

“And then?” Jeanne breathed.

“Then he began to believe in the gods. Sometimes, in a night of fog, he
thought he saw them creeping upon him. So he took to hiding in a small
cave that opened out right at this place.”

“And then?” Jeanne repeated.

“Then he hunted very little. He did not crack away rock to get copper.
Indians who came to visit the island found him shuddering in his cave.
You see, Jeanne,” Florence said soberly, “that’s what comes of believing
in island gods, fairies, gnomes, and all such.”

“Or, in not believing.” Jeanne was quite serious. “Perhaps the island was
_not_ meant to be lived upon,” she went on. “Perhaps it will all be
burned over. Then no one can live here.”

“Oh, but no!” She sprang to her feet. “It is so beautiful! It is always
so cool! The air is so delightful! It must not be destroyed! It truly
must not be!

“But this Indian, Sitting Cloud?” Her voice changed. “What happened?”

Florence looked toward the great rock towering to the sky. “Just what you
see. Sitting Cloud was a giant. Perhaps he had grown since coming to the
island. Anyway, so the story goes, one spring his friends came to look
for him and all they found was this rock. Even his cave was gone. The
gods had turned him to stone.”

“The gods had turned him to stone.” Jeanne whispered.

“Perhaps,” said Florence.

“I am sure it was so!” Jeanne declared. “But come!” She seized Florence
by the hand. “Let us go to the very top.”

Once again they took the upward trail. They came at last to the crest of
the ridge. There, standing on a platform of rock known as “Lookout
Louise,” they stood in silence, while their eyes took in the glorious
view.

It was a clear day. At their feet lay Duncan’s Bay. On the little camping
spot at its entrance, more than once in the days that had gone they had
pitched their tent.

“Happy days,” Jeanne whispered.

If Florence heard, she made no reply. She was looking away toward the
Canadian shores where Sleeping Giant, Pie Island, and Thunder Bay seemed
to call to her.

At that Jeanne broke in with three magic words: “The Phantom Fisherman.”

“Oh, no!” Florence exclaimed. “You only see him in a fog.” The fact is,
the big girl scarcely believed in this phantom at all.

“See for yourself!” Seizing her arm, Jeanne pointed away over the
shimmering water to a spot well beyond the last jagged end of the island.

“There!” she exclaimed, “there he is!”

“Sure enough. Let’s have a look.” Florence dragged a pair of heavy field
glasses to her eyes.

“Seems real enough,” she murmured. “White boat with a red gunwale, sort
of short and chubby. I’d know that boat anywhere. What a powerful motor
he must have! How he does dart about!”

“If we were there he would vanish,” Jeanne insisted.

“Jeanne, you’re a dreamer.” Florence let the glasses drop to her side.
“But then, what is one to expect from a gypsy, you—”

At that instant a cry escaped her lips. “Look! Only look, Jeanne!” She
had turned half-about. “Smoke everywhere! The whole island is on fire!”

This seemed indeed true. To judge distances was difficult but it looked
as though the nearest fire must not be more than ten miles away. Beyond
that the whole island was hidden by smoke.

Even as Jeanne looked, Florence exclaimed again, “Look!”

Once again, dragging the heavy fieldglasses to her eyes, she studied a
mass of rocks that at some distance rose above the treetops.

“A man,” she murmured, “A man in a bright red sweater. Must be five miles
away, where no one lives.”

The man had been leaping from rock to rock. Now he paused to turn and
look away. Did Florence see a fresh column of smoke rise from the
evergreen forest? She thought so. She could not be sure.

“He’s young,” she thought. “Perhaps only a boy. Not even a middle-aged
person could go over the rocks like that. Can he be a firebug? Are these
fires being set by him?”

To these questions there could be no answer for the present. One thing
was certain. If she saw him again close by and he wore that sweater, she
would know him, for surely there was but one such flash of red on the
island.

Two hours later the girls were having lunch with Edith Mateland, the wife
of one of the fishermen. She was a small person, and Florence thought
rather frail for such a life.

“Edith,” Florence said, “do people ever set forest fires?”

“Oh, yes. Many times!” was the startling reply.

“But why?”

“Perhaps they do not like the people who own the timber.”

“Revenge?”

“Yes. And perhaps they just want work.”

“Work?” Florence stared.

“Oh, yes,” Edith explained. “These days there are many who have no work.
If there is a very terrible fire men will be hired to fight it. Thousands
of men.”

“Oh! but these wouldn’t do that!”

“It has been done many times.” There was a ring of truth in Edith’s
voice. She was of the North. She knew.

Florence thought of the hundreds of men being brought to the island to
fight this fire. One thing was certain. If there was a firebug on this
island he must be caught. She would ask questions of people here and
there about the mysterious youth in the crimson sweater. She would search
far and wide for him. If he seemed to avoid her she would hunt him down.
He should not escape. So, fired by a new resolution, she rowed back to
the _Wanderer_.




                               CHAPTER IX
                        THE DEFENSE OF CHIPPEWA


She had barely reached the _Wanderer_ when a messenger, having raced over
the two-mile trail from Rock Harbor Lodge, appeared on the shore. Quite
out of breath, and greatly excited, he shouted across the narrow stretch
of water,

“Hey, there! Chippewa Harbor is burning!”

“What?” Florence was startled. “How do you know?”

“Got a short wave message from Ve and Vi, whoever they are.”

“Ve and Vi,” Florence said, “they are the fisherman’s daughters. They
have a short wave outfit for winter use. I shouldn’t wonder,” she
hesitated. Then she shouted across to the messenger, “Who’s there?”

“At Chippewa? Only the fishermen and a troop of boys.”

“Boys? What boys?”

“Troop No. 18.”

“Eight-eighteen?” The big girl’s hopes fell. She knew those boys. City
bred, they knew nothing of fire fighting. Two boys, Mike and Tony—the
worst of the lot—she suspected, were their leaders. What was to be
expected from them?

“Go back and get a message to them. Tell them we’re coming!” she called.

“But what’s the good?” Dave demurred, as Ruth ordered the deck cleared
for action. “If the place is burning what can be done?”

“You know as well as I,” Florence replied rather sharply, “that reports
on this island are always exaggerated. The least we can do is to go over
there and take the folks off. Think of losing everything,” she said in a
sober tone, “Home, furnishings, everything—the work of a lifetime.”

Soon they were skirting the rocky shores, headed for Chippewa, sixteen
miles away. Sitting on the deck, Florence closed her eyes, and tried to
picture in her mind the snug little harbor with its tiny huts, its
toy-like log cabin store and its little group of fishing folk. Had she
seen it all for the last time? It would seem so, for as her eyes opened
she saw a long column of yellow smoke trailing out over the lake. As they
rounded a point some two miles from the harbor, her anxiety increased. So
dense was the smoke that it did not seem that one building could be left
standing.

Imagine her surprise and joy when upon rounding the final jutting of rock
she beheld Chippewa Harbor just as she had seen it last!

“Doomed, for all that,” Dave said soberly. “Look at that line of fire not
a half-mile off and coming this way!

“For once,” he spoke slowly, “the _Wanderer_ is going to run.”

“Oh! No! Not yet!” Florence remonstrated.

“Not yet, but soon,” was the reply. “When we touch the dock you tell
those folks to get everything that’s portable on the deck of this boat
without delay.”

“But will they do it?” All too well the girl knew the stubborn
determination of these Scandinavian people.

To her surprise she found the fisher-folk ready to comply. They had seen
enough, were ready to admit themselves beaten. Even the troop of city
boys, who knew nothing of fire fighting, joined in the rescue work. In no
time at all the cottages, fishhouse and store were stripped.

“What about these?” a boy asked, pointing to several large boxes.

“Government property,” Florence decided. “They stay.”

“When do we go aboard?” Mike, leader of the boys’ troop, asked.

“You don’t go!” Florence gave him a strange smile. “You, too, are
government property. Oh, you won’t burn,” she added, as she saw the
sullen look on the boy’s face deepen. “All you have to do is run over the
ridge, climb down fifty feet, and find a good place to rest. The fire
will never touch you. Besides—” She did not finish.

“All right. Swing off. I’m staying.” There was a bluntness about her
tone, as for the first time she gave Dave an order.

“But why? You can’t—” Dave did not finish. She shot him a look. He had
seen that look on her face before.

“Cast off the line,” he said. Shuffling to the post, the boy called Tony
lifted the line and gave it a fling.

“Well?” Tony growled, giving Florence a hard look. “So you’re stayin’?”

Florence did not answer, for at that moment robust Katie appeared at the
ship’s rail. One look at Florence and, boy-like, she vaulted the rail,
sailed over three feet of water, and landed with a thud on the dock.

In sudden consternation, Florence saw that Jeanne, too, was preparing to
try the leap to shore. By this time the distance was too great. She would
fall into the water and might be injured by the boat’s propeller.

“No! Jeanne!” she screamed, “Don’t jump. Stay on the boat. They may need
you.”

Laughingly Jeanne held up her hands in sign of surrender then disappeared
down the hatchway.

“So you’re stayin’, too?” said the boy called Mike turning to Katie.

“You bet I’m stayin’,” said Katie. “Maybe we can lick that fire even if a
whole army can’t.”

“Aw, now don’t you get excited,” said Mike, with a leering grin. “It
takes men to fight a fire.”

“What’s in those boxes?” Florence demanded, ignoring their banter.

“We don’t know exactly,” said Tony. “Mebby they might be pumps.”

“Pumps?” The girl’s eyes widened. “Why don’t you open them up and see?”

“Captain’s gone,” said Mike. “Left yesterday. We can’t—”

“You can’t do a thing until he comes back!” There was biting sarcasm in
Florence’s voice. “Not if the whole island burned!”

“That’s what we want,” Tony jeered. “Exactly it. When it’s all burned we
can go back to the mainland.

“Lookit,” he waxed fairly eloquent, “What sort a place is this? Y’ can’t
crank up the flivver on Saturday night and go to town ’cause there ain’t
no flivver. An’ y’ can’t go see the girls and get a glass a beer ’cause
there ain’t no gals and there ain’t no beer.”

“Too bad!” said Florence, reaching for an ax that was leaning against the
dock house, and giving one of the six boxes a sharp crack.

“Y’ can’t do that!” Tony exclaimed. “Government property.”

“Can’t I?” She swung her ax again, knocking off a board.
Crack—crack—crack. The box broke away, revealing a neat contraption.

“It _is_ a pump!” The girl’s eyes shone. “Any of you know how to run it?”

No answer. Her eyes wandered to the nearby ridge. A giant spruce, ignited
from below, blazed clear to the sky in one terrifying whash. Seizing the
remains of the box, she cast them into the bay.

“Looks like an outboard motor,” she murmured. “Shouldn’t wonder if it was
made like one.”

“Yes! A rope to start it!” exclaimed Katie, grabbing a short rope with a
wooden handle attached. “I’ll try it!”

“You’ll get the devil for that!” Mike threatened. “Can’t fool with
government property.”

“You can’t and you don’t want to!” Florence flared up. She was uncoiling
a forty-foot hose. “You’d rather let the island burn. It might be a
playground for thousands. Tired people could rest here.”

“Yeah, rest!” Mike sneered, “Who’d want to rest? Go places! See things!
That’s me!”

“You’ve eaten Mrs. Carlson’s doughnuts and slept in her cabins when it
was raining, and now,” Florence threw him a look of scorn.

“You’re too fresh!” With a threatening gesture Tony moved closer along
the edge of the rock.

To all this Katie gave no heed. She had discovered a small tank on the
pump. This she had filled with gasoline. Now she was fitting the knot of
the short rope into its place. If this pump worked like an outboard motor
she could start it. And then—

Florence was thinking all this when with a start, her mind was brought
back to Mike.

“Think y’re smart, don’t yer?” There was a dangerous glint in his eye. He
took a step toward her—another, and another. “Think I’m a guttersnipe,
don’t y’—a tough city guy? Well, that’s what I am. I—I’ll show y’.” He
took one more step.

“No!” Florence tried in vain to steady her wildly beating-heart. “No!
That’s not what I think at all. I don’t care where you came from nor what
you’ve been. I only know what you are now. What you’re doing. Lying down
on your job—leading all these boys the wrong way. You’re ungrateful—you—”

“Think yer smart,” Mike stepped closer.

“Don’t do that, Miss,” a wavering voice came from the line. It was the
smallest, most timid boy of the lot who spoke. And yet—he had courage.

Swallowing hard, the girl tried to speak. Words would not come. Mike’s
fists were clenched hard as he moved one step nearer. He was closely
followed by Tony.

“Don’t let him, Miss,” came in that same wavering voice.

And then the thing happened. Three times, all unknown to Florence, the
powerful Katie had pulled the rope that turned the wheel of the strange
pump that looked like an outboard motor. All that time Florence had held
the hose in her hand. Once again Katie gave the rope a vicious jerk. And
then! Was it like an outboard motor? Like ten outboard motors all in one
the thing thundered—the hose in Florence’s hand writhed and twisted like
a snake. It swung half around her neck, tripped a boy passing down the
line, stiffened like a bent and twisted gas pipe, then shot forth a
stream that would have gone forty feet if it had not encountered an
obstacle. That obstacle was Mike’s broad chest!

Thrown off his balance by that irresistible force, with the swiftness of
light, Mike spun half-way round, rose in air, then went plunging into
space. When space rejected him, the glad, cold waters of the harbor
opened their arms to receive him!

Startled, thrown into sudden consternation by this turn of events,
Florence, without intending it at all, swung the hose about and the
stream sent Tony plunging after his pal.

Then, like some creature that has done its work swiftly and well, the
pump coughed twice, and lapsed into silence. Above this silence there
rose a low laugh. It ran all down the line of boys and all the way back
again.

Taking advantage of the situation, Florence exclaimed, “Boys, we have
pumps. You all have homes. If they were in danger, you’d save them if you
could. You’ve got to help save this home now! Get those boxes open.
Quick. Fill the tanks. Turn ’em over. If half the pumps work, we’ll win!”

Catching the spirit of the moment thirty boys leaped into action. In the
shortest imaginable time five pumps were coughing and sneezing like five
bull moose come up for air.

“This,” Florence thought, with a sudden touch of despair, “is all right.
But how shall we reach the fire?” Her eyes fell upon a dozen gasoline
barrels piled neatly by the dock house.

“Quick!” she exclaimed. “Cut two holes in the top of each barrel. Then
roll four up the ridge, each about forty feet from the next one.”

Though they did not understand why, the boys followed her directions.
When this was done, she said, “Now! Two of you to a pump. Take them up to
the barrels!”

“Bu-but, Miss, we don’t understand,” said the small, timid boy.

“There’s little time for explaining,” Florence snapped. “But this is the
idea, each pump will throw water thirty or forty feet.”

“Yea, yea,” they agreed, “but it’s a hundred and fifty to the top of that
first ridge.”

“That’s just it,” the girl explained. “The first pump will force the
water up to the first barrel. Then we will put the short hose of the
second pump in that barrel and draw the water out. That second pump will
carry the water another thirty feet to the second barrel.”

“And so on and on to the top,” someone exclaimed. “It’s a grand idea.
Think of a girl workin’ that out all by herself! Come on. Let’s get
goin’.” And they did.

It was with a feeling of deep satisfaction that Florence saw this first
task well begun. This first ridge, with its sparse growth of fir and
balsam, could be well soaked down before the fire arrived. The battle was
not won, but a good beginning had been made and Florence, as she studied
the youthful faces about her, knew that her little army would stick to
the last.

“There are chickens on board,” she said so they could all hear. “Twelve
large, fat chickens in the boat’s refrigerator. They were meant for a
Lodge. We’ll roast them all over the coals of this fire when the battle
is won.” A low, hoarse cheer greeted these remarks. Then, at a word, five
sturdy young pumps, each with the power of ten outboard motors, began
passing water from barrel to barrel until it shot forth in a broad
stream.

Fired with new hope, boys not needed at the pumps seized axes and began
slashing at the taller trees and dragging them away. When at last the
fire, fanned by a fresh breeze, came sweeping down the highest ridge into
the narrow run, then started climbing the “last desperate hope,” that
lower ridge, a thin line of grim-faced, determined boys met it half-way.
Such was the influence of one girl who refused to give up!

With all the pumps manned by the lightweight boys, the powerful Katie and
Florence seized axes and rushed down to add their bit. It was then that a
flaming spruce tree, toppling to a fall, pinned a smoke-blackened boy
beneath its branches.

“Katie! Quick!” Florence screamed. “He’ll be burned to death!”

With power born of desperation, the girls wrenched away flaming branches,
then dragged the boy clear. His shirt was on fire. Florence tore the
garment from him and stamped it into the damp moss. Then half dragging,
half carrying the injured lad, she removed him to safety.

It was only after the danger was over that she recognized the youth she
had saved. She truly did receive a shock!

“Mike! It’s you!” she exclaimed.

“Who’d y’ think it was goin’ to be?” growled Mike.

“But Mike! You helping to fight the fire?”

“I wasn’t helpin’,” Mike lied. “I was just dryin’ out me clothes.”

“Yes?” Florence turned over his right hand. It was still red from the
work it had done. There were two fresh blisters there. “Yes,” she said,
speaking with difficulty, “you—you were drying your clothes!”

For a moment there was silence, save for the roar and crackle of the fire
blazing away where it could do no harm. As the girl watched the flames
dart high, only to fall back against water-soaked trees, she knew she was
safe in snatching a few moments of rest. The victory was won. The little
fishery, the tiny cabins, the humble home of her friends—all were safe.
The fire would creep along the ridge until it came to barren rocks and
the waters of Superior. There it would flash and sputter its life away.
There might be other fires on the island. There were. She caught the
light of them in the distance. But Chippewa Harbor was safe!

“It wasn’t fer you that I done it!” Mike protested.

“Then why?” she demanded.

“Think yer smart, don’t y’?” was Mike’s only reply.

The truth was, Florence had unlocked the only door to Mike’s heart. With
the aid of that sputtering pump, she had licked him good and plenty. And
the law of physical force was the only law Mike knew anything about.

“Mike,” said Florence after a time, “what do you know about these fires
being set?”

“Not a thing,” said Mike. “Say! You don’t think—”

“No! No!” She stopped him. “I don’t think anything like that. But I must
find out, right away. Here, shake on it.” Her good, stout, capable hand
gripped Mike’s blisters, but Mike never flinched.




                               CHAPTER X
                            RIDING THE STORM


True to their promise, when the _Wanderer_ returned, Florence and Katie
prepared a grand feast of roast chicken, hot biscuits and coffee for the
weary young fire-fighters. None enjoyed this more than did Mike and Tony.

“When the next war comes,” Tony laughed, “you join up as Captain and
we’ll be your privates!” Coming from Tony this was high praise.

“One thing sure,” Dave said, after the feast was over, “if you ever again
need help from those boys you’ll get it without a murmur.”

“Chickens come high!” was Florence’s strange reply. “But I guess it’s
worth it.”

Yes, chicken did come high. All those dressed birds must be replaced, and
the little company’s purse was very flat. There was a worried note in
Dave’s voice as he said, “Tomorrow we must return to the mainland for
fuel oil. I wonder if we get it? The last bill isn’t paid yet!”

That worry was still with them as, after unloading the fishermen’s goods,
they headed away across the glassy waters of Superior. But when Father
Superior is in a happy mood, who can worry? “Never,” Florence thought,
“was the water so smooth or the sky so blue.”

With Indian John at the wheel and Katie’s galley sending out delicious
odors, the three of them, Dave, Florence and Jeanne, sat on deck looking
dreamily off across the water.

“There is a phantom fisherman off the end of Edward’s Island,” Jeanne
murmured, half talking to herself.

“A fisherman, but no phantom,” Dave insisted.

“It is our privilege in this life,” said Jeanne, “to have what we want,
provided we tread on no one’s toes. I want a phantom fisherman, so I
shall have one. You want a real fisherman. You may have him, too. Neither
of us wishes any fish, so what does it matter?”

“It doesn’t matter,” Dave agreed.

“One thing is important,” Florence insisted. “Are those fires on the
island being set?”

“No,” said Dave.

“But I’ve been told they were,” insisted his cousin. “Twice I’ve heard
it.”

“Who told you?”

“I—I don’t know. That’s the queer part.” She went on to tell of the
strange voice.

“Probably some ignorant fisherman talking nonsense,” was Dave’s verdict.
“They cling to these crags trying to eke out a living until they get a
little cracked in the head.”

To this, Florence would not agree. She had heard the voice. She had seen
the mysterious youth and was sure she would see him again.

“Questions that interest me more are—shall we be allowed to continue
carrying passengers?” said Dave, “and can we get more fuel oil on credit?
Upon these answers depends our future.”

“And perhaps the future of the island,” Florence added soberly.

“Yes, even that,” Dave admitted.

“Well,” Dave laughed as, late that day, his boat tied up at Houghton, he
slowly paced the dock, “we won’t have to worry about the future for a day
or two. This nor’wester will keep us in port, come what will.” Just as
they entered the canal, ten miles from Houghton, a wild storm had come
booming in.

“Couldn’t we make a trip if we had to?” Florence asked.

“Well, if we had to, I suppose we could.”

“I’m glad to hear you say that,” a brusque voice interrupted.

“Why?” Dave stared. He found himself looking into the keen, gray eyes of
the elderly man whom with his granddaughter, they had rescued some days
before from Greenstone Ridge on Isle Royale.

“They are having a hard time on the island,” the man explained. “Chips
wants more pumps and hose. There are pumps here—twenty of them—and ten
thousand feet of hose. I’d like—”

“But I don’t see—” Dave broke in.

“You don’t see how that affects me,” the man laughed. “I happen to be an
assistant national park commissioner; so this is my job. I am Colonel
Colby.”

“Oh-o,” Dave breathed, “and you want us to make a trip to Isle Royale?”

“It is imperative. The pumps must go. The _Iroquois_ is in port, but she
is old and clumsy. She’d not be safe, but your boat—”

“She’d do all right, but—” Dave hesitated, “our passenger license expires
tonight.”

“Passenger license!” The old man’s voice rose. “Who said anything about
passengers? Of course,” he added, “I shall go with you, but—I,” he
hesitated. “Well, you may ship me as freight,” he laughed heartily.
“Anyway, I represent the Government.”

“All right. Bring on your pumps. We’ll run down for fresh fuel. Be back
here in half an hour,” was the young skipper’s reply.

“One thing more,” he hesitated, “I hate to tell you this. You may think
we’re whining, but I doubt if our credit for fuel is good.”

“I’ll attend to that also,” the colonel replied without a second’s
hesitation.

“O.K. We’ll be with you in an hour.”

“That’s the talk!” The colonel gripped Dave’s hand for an instant, then
was away.

When two hours later the _Wanderer_ nosed her way out of the smooth water
of the canal into the surging seas that swept Lake Superior, Dave caught
his breath. Had he, for once, overestimated the cruising power of his
stout little craft? Only time would tell. The _Wanderer_ appeared to
glory in its battle with the waters. Climbing one monstrous wave, it
glided down the breaker’s slope, only to start climbing again. Great
splashes of white spray were dashed against the pilothouse window. The
deck was all awash; yet the _Wanderer’s_ motors throbbed sweetly as the
gallant boat forged its way ahead.

Night came. The storm increased. The black waves of night seemed more
terrible than those of the day. Struggling into her little galley, Katie
braced herself stiff-legged against a screwed-down table while she
prepared sandwiches for the weary men.

Below deck, one of the twenty pumps, breaking its moorings, threatened to
smash the others into bits. Only after many bumps and bruises was Rufus
able to restore it to its proper place.

“Wi-wild night,” Dave’s words were blown down his throat as he reached
gratefully for his sandwich.

“Tho-thought I saw a light,” Florence screamed.

“Sure! Sure! There it is!” Dave shouted. “Must be Passage Island. And
boy, oh, boy! If it is, we’re right on our course!”

They were on their course. They had Indian John to thank for that. One
peril still lay before them—the narrow, rocky entrance of Rock Harbor.
Could they make it? There was a prayer in every heart as they neared the
dark bulks looming out of the night.

“Little islands that guard the channel,” Dave explained, playing his
ship’s light upon them. “They’re all solid rock. And you don’t see all of
them. Some are just under the water. One touch on a night like this, and—

“There! There’s the gap!” he exclaimed excitedly. “It’s straight ahead of
us, one marker to the right and one to the left. Thank God, the waves are
striking the island squarely! We’ll ride them like a bucking broncho.

“Now!” he breathed, as a huge breaker bore them forward.

“Now!” Florence exclaimed, as a second, larger than the first, broke with
a hiss under the _Wanderer’s_ prow.

“And now!” shouted the gray-haired colonel, as the stout little craft
glided off the last wave to the calm of Rock Harbor. “That—that was
marvelous!” He gripped Florence and Dave by the hands. “I wouldn’t have
missed it for the world. And now,” he added quietly, “now for Chips.
He’ll be waiting.”

Chips was waiting, and it was the privilege of the young navigators to
witness his marvelous efficiency. With the smoothness of clockwork, his
men marched aboard the boat, thrust rope-lashed poles beneath each pump,
then disappeared into the night.

“That’ll lick the fire,” Chips murmured. “Besides, the wind’s shifting,
and there’s the smell of rain in the air.”

“There are good beds down at the lodge at the other end of the harbor,”
the gray-haired colonel turned to the _Wanderer’s_ crew. “You all need
some real rest. It’s smooth going all the way. What do you say we go down
and tie up there for twenty-four hours?”

“That,” exclaimed Florence, “would be keen!”

“And so say we all,” Dave echoed.

“O.K.,” he exclaimed, “John, you know this channel. Suppose you take the
wheel.”

“Aye, aye, sir!” Indian John saluted.

“And now, how about a few words over a cup of coffee?” suggested the
colonel.

It was a very friendly chat they had with the colonel, as, with the light
of the moon streaming in at their window, they sat contentedly listening
to the distant roar of dashing waves.

Without seeming to pry into their affairs, the gray-haired man found out
just how matters stood with them.

“You’ve been doing a grand work,” he rumbled at last. “In a most splendid
spirit. Before I left I told Addison, the fuel man you know, to supply
all your needs. I shall stand back of you in this.”

“Oh, that—that’s grand!” Florence choked a little.

“I don’t know how we can thank you, sir!” Dave said huskily.

“You don’t need to. This is perhaps but the beginning. I hope we have
much better things in store for you.”

“The little we have done has been for the good of the kindly people of
the island,” said Florence.

“And for the good of all,” added the colonel. “You must not forget that
Isle Royale is to be a national park. That it is to belong to all the
people of America. When you save a square mile of that virgin beauty you
are saving it for all the American people.

“By the way,” he said after a moment’s silence, “That man with the speed
boat doesn’t like you very well, does he? I suppose you know the reason
why.”

“No,” was Florence’s quick reply, “we have wondered about him ever since
we brought him to the island and he seemed ready to put us in chains
because we insisted on helping to save the camp at Siskowit.”

“He’s threatened to have our license revoked,” Dave put in. “It all seems
a bit fantastic. We really never did anything to him.”

“No, probably not,” the colonel agreed. “But your grandfather did and it
is his boat you are operating, I am told.”

“Grandfather! Grandfather?” they exclaimed. “He never wronged anyone.”

“He never did,” the colonel agreed, “but he got in bad by doing right.
This man who has chosen you for an enemy was once running a boat contrary
to regulations, carrying many more passengers than the law allows,
endangering people’s lives. The authorities asked your grandfather about
it. Being the sort of man who hates lies, he told the truth.”

“Good for Granddad!” Florence exclaimed.

“Right,” the gray-haired man agreed. “For all that, he made himself a
lifetime enemy. But,” he added, “you need not worry further about him. I
shall see that he is properly taken care of.

“Look!” he exclaimed springing to the window, “we are at Snug Harbor—our
night of storm is over. I shall arrange at once for your accommodations
at the Lodge.”

“We are to have a hot bath and sleep between clean, white sheets,”
Florence whispered to Jeanne. “How perfectly grand!”

Scarcely had their boat touched the dock when Katie began talking in her
own tongue to a fisherman whose small boat was tied up to the dock.

“He says,” she exclaimed eagerly, “that he is going to the camp at
Siskowit where mine brother is. I do so wish to see him.”

“Is he coming back?” Florence asked.

“Tomorrow night.”

“Let her go,” said Dave. “She’ll catch up with us somewhere.”

So the happy Katie went gliding away through the dawn with her new-found
friend. She had dinner that day with her brother and his companions at
camp. That night, fired with enthusiasm by the talk of the boys who had
only words of praise for the _Wanderer_ and her crew, she returned to
Rock Harbor in plenty of time to take up her duties.




                               CHAPTER XI
                          ASHES IN THEIR HAIR


To our good pals, Florence and Jeanne, who had been so tossed about by
the waves of old Superior in his worst mood, nothing could have been more
delightful than the interlude that followed.

“Contrast!” Florence exclaimed, as, after a refreshing bath, she welcomed
the clean coolness of linen sheets. “It is contrast that makes living
such a joy. Half the night we tumble about in the dark, the other half we
rest in the most perfect of summer lodges.”

“Yes,” Jeanne agreed. “Tomorrow we dream by an open fire. And next
day—who knows?”

Who indeed!

They slept until ten next morning. Because of their service to the island
all dining room rules were broken, and they were served with delicious
French toast and coffee. After that, they retired to the broad lounge
where they stretched themselves out in roomy chairs before a cheerful
fire.

“How grand it would be just to live here as guests!” Jeanne whispered.

“And forget all about the fire,” Florence agreed. “But that would be
impossible.”

And indeed it would. The fires were not forgotten by anyone. Only the
hardiest of souls had remained on the island. At that moment, catching
snatches of conversation from the guests lounging in the big room, the
girls heard, “They say they’re being set; these fires.” It was a woman
who spoke.

“See?” Florence whispered. “What have I been saying?”

“That’s nonsense,” a man’s voice rumbled. “The island is like tinder.
Bits of birchbark are lighted by the flames. They break away and are
carried miles.”

“Still on fire?” said another voice.

“Absolutely!” the man insisted. “There are ashes in your hair right now,
and you weren’t out of doors a quarter-hour. Where did they come from?
Many miles away. Yesterday I saw a black object floating down. I caught
it. It was a leaf, charred black by the fire. It had floated in the air
miles and miles.”

Apparently convinced, his companions said no more. But Florence was not
satisfied. Had she not been told the fires were being set? And had she
not seen the youth with the crimson sweater? Did some imp whisper, “Yes,
and you are to see him again—very soon. No good will come of that,
either.” Well, perhaps not. Who can say?

“There’s grand fishing here at the island,” said a man in high boots and
red plaid shirt. “I row a heavy boat three hundred miles every summer,
trolling for lake trout. It reduces my waistline two inches.”

“I am always going to row a heavy boat three hundred miles,” drawled a
large, fat man, “next year!” Everyone laughed.

“Last year,” said the ardent fisherman, “I lost my metal lure. Wasn’t
tied right. A fish carried it off, but he gave it back.”

“Gave it back? How come?” asked his fat friend.

“Seems he didn’t want it, so he hung it on a fisherman’s net and the
fisherman gave it to me.”

“You expect us to believe that?”

“I’ve got the lure to prove it.”

“Jeanne,” Florence whispered, “I’m going fishing first chance I get. A
fellow has a little fun coming to him.”

“Yes,” Jeanne admitted, “you have.”

So the long, lazy day passed. It was glorious to sit in the sun, to climb
over the rocks, to loaf by the fire without a care.

When the next day dawned— Sh! That was to be quite another matter.

Their day of perfect peace was climaxed by a pleasant surprise just
before sundown. The evening meal was over. They had settled themselves
before the fire, when someone burst into the room with a low exclamation,
“Moose! Over at the salt lick!”

This was a signal for a silent exit and a tiptoe march out around the
stockade at the back of the lodge, across the tennis court, then into the
brush to a spot where salt had been placed to lure the wild moose.

“A monster!” someone whispered, as they came in sight of the salt lick.
And he was just that. With wide spreading antlers and bulging eyes, in
that dim light he appeared like a very dangerous creature. Jeanne
shuddered at the sight of him. And well she might.

“No cause to be afraid,” said the Commodore. “This is a game preserve. No
one is allowed to shoot them. They are as tame as cattle.”

“Almost!” came from someone in the rear. Who had spoken? Later, when they
tried, no one could recall.

The moose did seem tame enough. There was a camera enthusiast in the
group. Slipping up close, he took time exposures. Then, growing bolder,
he touched off a flash bulb. The moose looked up, glared about him, then
once more began licking the salt.

“Perfect!” someone whispered.

“Almost!” came as a sort of echo.

And then peace ended. Something stirred at Jeanne’s feet. It was Plumdum.
Jeanne gasped. She had left him curled up asleep by the fire. Somehow, he
had got out. The dog scented the moose. The moose saw the dog. To a
moose, a dog is a wolf. To a dog, moose spells danger.

Plumdum was courageous. Barking wildly, he leaped straight at the moose.
Lowering his head and letting out a terrifying bellow, the moose charged
the dog.

“Plumdum! You’ll be killed!” Poor Jeanne shrieked.

The visitors vanished.

“Come on.” Florence seized Jeanne by the arm, “You can’t do anything
about that!”

“He’ll be killed!” the little French girl screamed.

Slowly, as the moose came on, Florence led her companion back. It did
seem as though Plumdum would be killed. Yet, quick as a flash, he avoided
every toss of those massive antlers.

Then came a touch of comedy. A stout clothesline was stretched three
times across the monster’s path. Heaving his antlers high for one more
try at Plumdum, he brought them squarely into these lines. At once he was
entangled. Florence laughed at his frantic efforts to break loose. But
Jeanne, dashing forward, seized the small dog to carry him away.

She was not an instant too soon. The moose, having torn the line from its
hooks, gave vent to one more bellow of rage, and was after them. Before
them was a high board fence, and in the fence a swinging gate. Pushing
her companion before her, Florence crowded through the gate. The moose,
only a step behind them, thrust his nose into the opening just as the
gate slammed shut. A chain, hung with two heavy rocks, held it tight.
Florence added her weight to that of the stones by dropping on the chain,
and Mr. Moose had his nose pinched in a manner he would not soon forget.

When at last he had freed himself, he went swiftly and silently away into
the brush. The fight was over. Peace again reigned in Snug Harbor. Jeanne
and Florence enjoyed one more night of repose. And tomorrow was another
day.




                              CHAPTER XII
                            THE CRIMSON SPOT


The next morning Florence lay dreaming luxuriously in bed. Without
knowing why, she thought of smiling Tim O’Hara and his Adventurers’ Club
of the air. On her last trip to the mainland she had found a letter from
him.

“The radio program is going big,” he wrote. “It’s a grand spot, coast to
coast. We are looking forward to your coming. As soon as the battle of
Isle Royale is over, wire me, collect, and I’ll get off a round trip
ticket for you that every hour.”

“To speak over the radio,” she thought, as she thrilled at the prospect,
“a chain broadcast, coast to coast! What would that be like?” She had not
the slightest idea, but hers was the right to dream. And dream she did.

Jeanne, who had risen at dawn to watch the matchless sunrise from over
the dark waters of Superior, suddenly burst into the room.

“Come, my dear!” she exclaimed. “It’s slacks and hiking boots today!”

“What’s happened?” Florence asked.

“There’s to be a mountain climbing. It’s Mt. Franklin, only five hundred
feet high, but you can see the fire from there.”

“It’s worth doing, if we have no more serious business,” Florence agreed.

“Oh, yes!” Jeanne exclaimed. “Your gray-haired friend is back. He says
there’s good news for you.”

“Good news?” The big girl’s heart leaped. She was in her clothes and out
of doors before Jeanne could catch her breath.

“Come inside and have your morning coffee,” Colonel Colby invited, after
greetings had been exchanged. “Dave has gone in. I have something to say
to you both.”

He was tantalizingly slow in coming to the point, but after he had talked
of moose, salmon, trout, Snug Harbor and big timber, and after the
morning coffee was over, clearing his throat, he satisfied their
curiosity.

“I have been in touch with my Department by short wave radio. We are
obliged to revise our plans—” Pausing, he looked at his young companions,
then went on, slowly,

“I truly hate doing this. I think it would be splendid training for your
young souls if you were allowed to return home for a month or two hence
with empty pockets, but fired by the realization that you have made a
real contribution to the happiness of your fellow men, as you surely
have.

“However,” he cleared his throat again, “there is your grandfather’s
interest to be considered. He is a splendid man. I know him well. He can
ill afford to lose.

“What’s still more important,” he paused for a space of seconds, “the
truth is, we need your boat.”

“You do!”

“Absolutely.” The colonel leaned forward. “When men are to be moved by
hundreds, a large craft like the _Iroquois_ is best. But when we have won
this major battle with the fire, which we hope to do in a few days—two
weeks, at most—there will remain weeks of mopping up to be done. Men will
be scattered here and there all over the island, putting out spot fires,
cutting down charred trees, digging out burning peat bogs. They must have
food and other supplies. Their officers must be moved from place to
place. For such a task the _Wanderer_, that can turn around on its own
shadow and can enter every little cove with safety, is just the craft.

“So-o,” he added, as his listeners waited in breathless suspense, “in the
name of our Government I am going to requisition your boat for perhaps
eight weeks. The pay shall be four hundred and twenty-five dollars per
week, and you shall be supplied fuel and oil without cost.”

“But—”

“The matter has been gone into quite carefully,” the colonel held up a
hand for silence. “We have decided that this will be a fair settlement.
And you,” he threw back his head and laughed, “you can’t do a thing about
it!”

“Do anything about it!” Dave enthused. “Four hundred and twenty-five a
week, for two months. We’ll pay off the debt!”

Florence let out a low “Hurray! Boy! That sure is a break for us!”

“No,” the colonel counseled. “Don’t say that. It is not a matter of luck.
The best things of life do not come by chance. You have been tried and
have proven yourselves worthy of trust. Having discovered an opportunity
to do a real service, you did it without thought of reward. Time after
time in my long life, I have seen men who placed service before reward
led by their very attitude into higher things.

“Well, that’s settled then.” He rose from his chair. “I doubt if we shall
need the services of the _Wanderer_ today. At least you may stand by here
for further orders.”

“Thank you, sir.” Dave rose to salute in a soldierly fashion.

Florence’s head was fairly bursting. What wonderful good fortune! They
were to carry on this fight, to do all the good possible, to help save
the island and its people. “And be paid for it!” she whispered. “How
grand!”

It is little wonder that she should be ready for a picnic. When Dave
assured her that he, with the help of Katie and Ruben, could take care of
any emergency that might arise, she and Jeanne joined the hikers, who,
after a long walk, were to view the fire from the peak of Mt. Franklin.

Recalling her experience on that other occasion when she climbed the
ridge, she slung the heavy field glasses over her shoulder.

“May see a moose,” she laughed. “Or perhaps a bear!”

“There are no bears on the island,” someone corrected.

“All right,” she laughed, “then I’ll look for some other creature.” She
knew what. Nor was she to be disappointed.

Two hours later they were standing on the crest of the ridge, looking
down the length of the island, where great clouds of smoke were rising
and drifting away across the water. The nearest fire, Florence estimated,
could not now be three miles from the spot where they now stood.

“If a strong wind came up—blowing this way—” She shuddered as she spoke.

“Yes,” said Jeanne, “that would be tragic!”

And so it would be. Back of them were woods and water, picturesque
cottages and happy people. Before them, fire.

“Look, Jeanne!” With trembling hands Florence passed the field glasses to
her companion. “There on the rocks close to that dark cluster of spruce
trees, right between three fires—do you see anything there?”

“Yes.” Jeanne spoke very slowly. “There is a spot—a crimson spot. It
moves. It is a man.”

“Or perhaps a boy,” said Florence. “Listen, Jeanne,” the big girl’s lips
were a straight line, “I am going to that spot!”

“Oh, no!” Jeanne protested.

“Yes.” Florence was serious. “If that is the firebug, I shall get him.”

“See that trail?” She pointed to a narrow break in the forest. “It leads
to the head of the harbor. I’m going down that on the run. If you wish
you may follow me to the camp and the dock at the end of the trail.”

“I shall follow,” said Jeanne.

“Wait for me there.”

Florence was away.




                              CHAPTER XIII
                         AND MAY YOU COME BACK


As, a half hour later, Florence neared the entrance to a second trail
leading to the flaming forest, she suddenly thought of the fire-fighter,
who had been placed there to prevent fire-fans from rushing into danger,
and her knees all but doubled under her.

“How am I ever to get past him?” she asked herself in sudden
consternation.

How indeed? Well enough she knew what these hard-boiled fighters thought
of girls who, for sentimental reasons or for the purpose of experiencing
a thrill, tried to crowd past them.

“If I stop to argue I’m lost,” she told herself.

Then the experience of a friend in a great city came to her and she
smiled. This friend had been hurrying to a train when a man sprang out
before her and exclaimed,

“Give me your money! This is a stick-up!”

“I—I’ve got to catch a train,” her friend had panted as she went racing
straight on.

“I’ll do something like that,” she concluded. And she did.

“Hey! Where y’ think yer goin’, sister?” the fire guard demanded as she
ran up to him.

“I—I’ve got to get back there,” she puffed. “It—it’s awfully important.”

She was past him and had lost herself in the brush before he knew what
had happened.

“Well, that’s that,” she chuckled. “Now to find that boy.”

This, she discovered at once, was not going to be easy. There was little
or no trail. She had hoped to find an even slope on which to travel.
Instead there were ridges and narrow valleys or low, deep runs. She was
obliged to pass around the deepest of these. In doing so she lost her
sense of direction. The brush was thick. Wild raspberry bushes tore at
her. Vines tripped her. She stepped on a great, fallen log. It caved in
and sent her sprawling. Fallen trees blocked her path.

“I—I’ve got to get through,” she thought, fighting doggedly on.

To make matters worse the wind shifted, setting great masses of smoke
bellowing down upon her. Choking and coughing, eyes blinded, she paused
to consider.

“Am I going the right way?” she asked herself in some alarm. To this
question she could form no answer.

The wind changed again. The smoke was less dense. She pushed on.

Fifteen minutes later, billows of smoke once more bore down upon her. And
this time the air seemed hot to her flushed cheek.

“What a dunce I was,” she exclaimed. “I—”

She did not finish, for, at that second, the smoke appeared to rise
straight in the air. And there, not a hundred yards away, was a wall of
fire. Even as she watched, the flames, reaching the foot of a great
spruce tree, raced to its very top with a great whoosh. A second tree
went up like a rocket, then a third.

She did not wait for more. She turned and ran. Over rocks and fallen
trees, through masses of thimbleberry bushes, through a low swampy spot
that sank to her tread, she raced until, with staring eyes and wildly
beating heart, she came squarely up against one more wall of fire.

All but exhausted, she sank down upon a great, hot rock to think. What
had happened? The wind had shifted. This had brought the fire in from a
new direction. Perhaps that boy in the crimson sweater had set fresh
fires. Perhaps she was completely surrounded.

“Trapped,” she thought with a shudder.

“But I must keep my head,” she told herself. “There should be a way out.
There must be. There—there just has to be.”

Strangely enough at that very moment her good friend, Captain Frey, was
talking about that very question. He was speaking to a dozen of his boys.
Among them were Mike and Tony.

“Boys,” he was saying, “a girl dodged past the guard and went back there
where the fire is burning its fiercest. What she wanted I don’t know, but
from what the guard tells me I’d say it was this big girl, Florence. You
all know her.”

“Yea—yea—yea,” they all agreed.

“I’ll say we do!” Mike muttered.

“She’s the realest thing on the island!” the Captain exclaimed. “If we
all were like her there’d be no more fire. I don’t know her reason for
going in there but it’s bound to have been a good one.

“Thing is,” his tone was sober. “Wind’s shifted since she went in. If she
loses her way—”

“And she will,” Mike broke in. “I know dat place. It’s bad.”

“Some of you boys must go in and bring her out,” the captain challenged
abruptly. “Who’s it going to be?”

“Me and Tony, eh, Tony?” Mike volunteered.

“Sure t’ing,” Tony agreed.

The captain looked at them squarely. “Seems to me I heard that she ducked
you two,” he said.

“Fergit it,” said Mike. “We had it comin’. Anyway, that was a long time
ago. Leave us go after her. We’ll bring her out, Cap’n. Honest, we will.”

“Sure we will,” Tony seconded.

There was a strange new light in the Captain’s eye and a huskiness in his
voice as he said, “All right, boys. In you go! And may you come back.”




                              CHAPTER XIV
                          A DESPERATE VENTURE


Mike and Tony had been gone a half hour when Jeanne came up to the small
dock next to the entrance to the trail. Plumdum was at her heels.

“Cap-Captain Frey!” she exclaimed as she met the fire fighter on the
trail, “did my friend, Flor-Florence come this way?”

“I’m afraid she did.”

“Is she in danger?” Jeanne tried to read his face.

“I am afraid she is. However, two boys went in after her. They may find
her.”

“But if they don’t?”

“It’s going to be bad.” He frowned. “The wind changed. She’s likely to be
trapped.”

“Oh,” Jeanne stood first on one foot, then on the other. Whining low,
Plumdum, sensing her troubles, brushed against her.

Of a sudden a bright idea took possession of the little French girl.
“There’s a hydroplane tied up at the dock,” she exclaimed. “Where’s the
pilot?”

“There are three of us that take a turn at it,” said the captain.

“Then—then,” she caught her breath. Jeanne had flown a great deal. She
loved the air as a seaman loves the sea. “Why couldn’t we circle over
them? We—we might find them a way out.”

“It’s an idea!” said the captain. “Come on!”

“What about Plumdum?” Jeanne asked.

“Take him along. We might want to throw him overboard just to let them
know we’re interested,” the captain chuckled.

“No!” Jeanne was shocked.

“It’s an idea at that.” He was hurrying now. “Can he wriggle out of a
harness?”

“Oh! Always!”

Jeanne was thinking, “What’s he got on his mind now?”

The captain said no more. A moment later opportunity for talk was gone,
the motor was roaring. They were away.

Racing down the bay they rose in the air, circled over the tree tops,
circled once again, then shot away above the smoke-whitened island.

Had it not been for the fear in Jeanne’s heart regarding the safety of
her good pal, she would have enjoyed this to the full. Here they passed
over the glorious blue of the bay and there the dark green of island
forest. Here all was blotted out by billowing white clouds and there was
dense black smoke, edged by flames that appeared to reach for them.

“How terrible to fall into a burning forest from the air,” she thought
with a shudder.

Then she saw something that set her pulling at the pilot’s shoulder.
“There!” she screamed. “There they are!” She pointed straight down.

Little room was left for doubt. In a field of dark green a white spot
stood out plainly and beside it two dark ones. The white spot would be
Florence in slacks and a white blouse, the other two Mike and Tony.

They circled low. Jeanne saw those below wave white handkerchiefs.

Once again the plane shot upward. Three times the pilot circled the spot.
Three times Jeanne’s keen eyes sought for a possible way out and three
times she failed. It seemed to her that her friends were completely
encircled by flames, that the wall of fire from the west was closing in
and that nothing could save them. Involuntarily she pressed Plumdum to
her breast.

Three minutes later the plane was at rest on the beautifully quiet bay.

“The situation is difficult but not hopeless.” The Captain spoke rapidly.
“There is not a minute to lose. There is a break in the fire up the ridge
toward the north. It’s hidden from them by smoke. They can’t see it. If
we had some way to tell them.”

“Can we land?” Jeanne was eager.

“In a hydroplane on dry earth and rocks?” he stared at her.

“A parachute,” she volunteered. “I—I’ve baled out. Three times.”

“No parachute,” the captain groaned. “If we had one I wouldn’t let you
risk it. You’d get hung in a tree and be roasted to a turn.

“But say!” he exclaimed. “There is a parachute of a sort.” He began
digging into a leather pocket. “Here it is, a dog parachute. Belongs to
my dog over at camp. I’ve dropped him a score of times. He likes it.

“And there’s your dog,” his voice picked up. “I—I’ll just draw a crude
map, showing where the gap is, write a note and tie it to the dog’s
collar. Then he’ll make a parachute flight. If they don’t see him, he’s
sure to wriggle out of the harness. We’ll put it on rather loosely. After
he’s free he’ll circle and find them. Sure to. Any dog will do that. And
he knows your big girl friend, doesn’t he?”

“Plumdum?” Jeanne could scarcely speak.

“Yes, your dog.”

“Yes—yes. Oh, yes, he knows Florence.”

“Then is it a go?”

“Yes, I—guess— Yes. Sure it is!”

“Poor Plumdum!” Jeanne was thinking, and then, “Poor Florence.”

Ten minutes later, as the hydroplane once again left the water to soar
wide and high, Jeanne sensed rather than felt that the wind was picking
up.

“We’ll have to hurry,” she shrilled in the pilot’s ear.

The pilot nodded as he put on a sudden burst of speed.




                               CHAPTER XV
                          THE DOG’S PARACHUTE


By this time you are wondering what had happened to Florence. She had
paused to consider her own plight. She had lost all trace of the trail,
was surrounded by smoke and flames and knew of no certain way of escape.
The only answer to such a problem was retreat.

But which way? Up the ridge perhaps. She resolved to try this. The wall
of rock was all but perpendicular. At times she was obliged to find a toe
hold in a crack between rocks, then to grasp the root of a tree that,
like herself, clung precariously, then drag herself up. Always there was
the danger of a fall. A broken leg might mean a terrible death by fire.

The girl was strong and steady of nerve. No cigaret smoking, no fasting
to attain a perfect figure had sapped her strength. All this stood her in
good stead at this moment. It saved her from possible accident. It could
not, however, change the course of the fire. To her further consternation
she discovered as, all but exhausted, she threw herself upon the crest,
that the fire was on its way up the opposite slope to meet her.

“Oh! Oh-a!” she breathed in dismay. How the fire roared and crackled!
Already great waves of heat were wafted up to her.

Turning wearily she began letting herself back down the slope.

“I must not allow myself to grow desperate,” she told herself. “I _must_
not.”

Forcing herself to unusual caution she held her nerves steady and step by
step made her way down.

One other way of escape seemed to present itself—a narrow, dry swamp ran
between two ridges. It was filled with smoke but there were no flames. It
might still be open. Daring to hope, she went hurrying over its
brush-entangled bed of leaves and moss. The smoke was stifling and all
but blinding. At times she found herself fairly groping her way.

There came a time when it seemed she could no longer breathe. A peculiar
brown smoke appeared to rise from the very ground. This, she discovered
to her despair, was exactly what it was doing. At this point the ground
was on fire. Isle Royale, in the beginning, was a barren rock. All its
soil is of vegetable origin. Here in the narrow valley a form of peat lay
some three feet thick. Dry as tinder it had ignited. To attempt to pass
over it would be to find oneself floundering in masses of burning peat.
This was unthinkable. Once again the way was blocked.

Wearily she turned back to retrace her steps to higher ground and clearer
air. Scarcely had she reached her starting point when, to her great
surprise, she heard her name called. A great wave of joy swept over her
as she answered, “Here! Here I am!”

Call answered call until at last Mike and Tony burst into view.

“Oh! It—it’s you,” she faltered.

“Sure it’s us,” Mike agreed. “Who’d you t’ink? We may be tough, miss, but
we know real coin when we see it. You come from right down our alley.
Come on, we’ll git y’ out a’ here.”

“Not so fast,” a voice might have whispered. The boys had been too intent
on getting over the trail to note that a wall of fire was at that very
moment fast closing the trail. They had retraced their steps only a
matter of two hundred yards when they found themselves face to face with
that wall of fire.

“All right fer you,” Mike shouted defiance at the flames. “We’ll find a
way out. Never doubt that!”

It was not long before even Mike did doubt this. Florence had warned him
of danger in two directions. All others seemed blocked.

This was the state of affairs when Jeanne and the captain flew over them
for the first time. At sight of the plane Florence took courage. She was
sure they would try to help. But how? They could not land. There was no
lake in the fire-encircled area. What could they do? She was to know.


In the meantime, on a very high point of Greenstone Ridge, perhaps a mile
away, there stood a solitary figure. He wore a crimson sweater and
carried a high-powered glass at his side. Three times he lifted the glass
to study the spot where Florence and the two boys stood. At last he
turned and took three steps in their direction. Then he stopped. A sound
had reached his ears, the drum of an airplane motor.

He did not go on, but, as the airplane circled toward him, dropped from
sight behind some low-growing fir trees. Who was he? Why was he here? Did
he know a safe way back to the spot where Florence and the boys stood?
Who could answer these questions?

Florence and her companions, too, heard that motor. It was the plane’s
second trip. Their hopes rose. They might receive aid. But how?

Twice, as they stood watching, the plane circled. Then a spot of white
appeared at the side of the plane. In the rear seat a slim figure stood
erect. It was Jeanne. She was saying, “Poor Plumdum.”

The spot of white detached itself from the plane. The girl sat down.

“A parachute!” Florence murmured hoarsely.

“It ain’t big enough,” said Mike.

“There’s something dark—” Florence did not finish.

“Oh—ah! Gone into a cloud of smoke,” Tony groaned.

“It—it’s a message or something. I—I’ll get it. I’ve got the direction.
You stay right here,” Florence was away.

Dashing through brush, over fallen trees and around giant boulders she
had covered half the distance when to her vast astonishment she began
hearing strange sounds.

“What can it be?” she asked herself. She stopped dead in her tracks.

What indeed? Now it was like the ki-yi of a badly frightened dog and now
like the roar of a mad bull.

As she stood there the sounds grew louder until the whole air seemed
filled with them. Then, to her utter consternation she saw poor little
Plumdum racing toward her. And after him, tongue lolling, massive antlers
tossing, came a giant bull moose.

For ten seconds, her whole body paralyzed with fear, she stood there
motionless. Then her alert mind began to work. Full well she knew the
hatred every moose bears for every creature of the dog and wolf family.

To stand there and gather the small dog in her arms would have been a
gallant but fatal gesture. She would have been torn in pieces.

She did not pause but fled down the way she had come. Realizing that the
moose was much faster than herself, she began dodging to the right here
and the left there. The moose, she knew, had poor eyesight. She was
putting low-growing spruce trees between herself and her pursuer. This
gave her added time. Twice the moose, coming head on into the sturdy
limbs of a tree, was obliged to back away before continuing the chase.

Plumdum had dodged off into the brush. Mike and Tony, hearing the roar of
the moose had climbed trees. It was Florence and the moose for it. Or was
it?

She had gained considerable distance, had raced past the spot she had
left without seeing the boys in the trees and was hoping to elude her
pursuer when catastrophy befell her. Her boot caught in a vine and sent
her sprawling. Worst of all, she fell on a half rotten stump which
knocked the breath out of her. In agony she tried to rise. It was
impossible.

Tony was slim, agile as a cat, a typical Italian. His dark eyes had taken
it all in. His trigger-like mind had formed a plan. The moose would pass
beneath his tree. And then—

Something hit the moose squarely in the back. Something seized his
antlers in a grip of steel. Thrown into sudden panic, he forgot Florence
to go bolting down the slope toward the swamp where the ground was on
fire.

Neither Mike nor Florence saw this last bit of wildwoods drama. They were
astonished when Tony did not at once answer their call. But here was
Plumdum whimpering at their feet. And there, safely tied to his collar
was a precious message.




                              CHAPTER XVI
                           WHO RIDES A MOOSE


The small hydroplane was back at the dock. The captain had said, “We have
done what we could. We can only hope for the best.” A picture of woe,
Jeanne sat on the narrow dock. In an effort to save a good pal she had
sacrificed her beloved Plumdum. She did not regret the sacrifice if only
it saved her friend. But would it?

At times she felt an all but overpowering desire to dash away over the
trail in the vain hope of passing the fiery barrier. Twice she rose to
carry out the mad plan. Twice she resumed her seat on the dock.

When she rose for the third time the captain said, “Come on. Hop in.
We’ll fly over and see what’s happened.”

They did fly. And they did see. Jeanne had marked the spot where Florence
had stood. It was between three great rocks. Already the fire had come
that far. Three times they circled. No trace of their lost comrades did
they find. What had happened? Would they ever know? Jeanne sank back into
her seat.


She did not remain so for long. Of a sudden she sat up to clutch the
pilot and to scream in his ear, “Captain Frey please circle back over
that bare knob of rock.”

“Right.” The captain turned the wheel.

A crimson spot on that bare flat rock had caught Jeanne’s attention.
This, she reasoned must be the boy in the crimson sweater. He it had been
that had lured her good friend Florence into the fire trap. Well, he
should pay for that. He should have a warning this very moment. Deftly
forming a bit of string and her handkerchief into a tiny parachute, she
attached a bit of greenstone rock to it, then clutched it between her
knees while she scribbled a note. This note read:

  “You are suspected of setting these fires. If you are guilty you shall
  be caught. We are on your trail. _Gypsies never forget._”

Binding this note to the greenstone rock she waited. The plane soared
lower and lower. They would pass over the rock at a hundred feet.
Accustomed to judge the speed of planes, she leaned far over and waited.
Then, as she found herself all but looking into the eyes of the
mysterious youth, she allowed the tiny parachute to go drifting away.

Watching, she saw the white spot dropping lower and lower. “Good! He sees
it!” she exclaimed, “He can’t miss it.” Then she whispered low, “The
gypsies’ first warning.”


It was with trembling fingers that Florence unbound the pocket on
Plumdum’s collar. Together she and Mike studied the crude map which
Captain Frey had drawn.

“Let’s see,” the girl murmured. “That gap between fires must be in that
direction.” She pointed toward a low ridge.

“No,” Mike corrected. “This way more.” He was looking at his compass. “We
better scram. Dat note says no time to lose.”

“But, Tony? What about him?” the girl protested.

“Oh, Tony,” the boy’s brow wrinkled. Well enough Florence knew the bond
of undying friendship between these two boys.

“Oh, Tony.” There was a forced note of cheerfulness in Mike’s voice.
“Tony’s a Dago. He’s made out of tin cans, old asbestos an’ other scrap.
He wouldn’t burn.” The laugh that followed was far from real.

Florence was touched. She swallowed a tear, swayed a little, then said
simply,

“Al-all right, let’s go.” And what else was there to do?

“We’ll let out a yell now and then,” said Mike.

Gathering Plumdum into her ample arms, Florence led the way.

Their way ran across the dried-up bog. The ground was soft. For some
distance their footprints remained plainly marked. At last these prints
were lost on the rocky slopes beyond.

Now and again Mike paused to shout, “Yo-ho!”

Only the ridge echoed back faintly, “Yo-ho!” and yet more faintly,
“Yo-ho!” Mike’s feet seemed to drag but he kept doggedly on.

“If I stay behind,” he was thinking, “she’ll stay too. An’ that won’t do.
She’s worth the two of us.”

They came at last to a spot where, near the crest of the ridge, they were
between two fires. The heat here was intense, almost scorching. Plumdum
whined piteously.

“Come on,” Florence urged. “It’s our only chance.”

“I—I can’t,” Mike moaned. “It’s me pal, Tony. I—I gotta go back.”

“You can’t,” Florence hissed, seizing his arm. “Not now. You’re going on
if I have to drag you.”

“Oh, all right, I’ll come,” Mike replied miserably.

Fifteen minutes later they were past all danger. On the crest of a higher
ridge, where there were no trees, only rock, and where a cool breeze
fanned their parched cheeks, they watched the fire roaring on beneath
them.

“Ton-Tony!” A veritable roar of anguish escaped Mike’s lips.

To their unbounded astonishment there came an answer, “Here! Here I am!
What you t’ink?”

“I knew it!” Mike broke into a roar of laughter. “It’s Tony. My Tony.
Didn’t I tell you? You can’t burn up a Dago like him!”

Unashamed the two boys embraced each other. A moment later, with Plumdum
yip-yipping his delight at their heels, the three of them danced a jig
atop a great, flat rock.

Once more Mike went into the lead by declaring, “We’d better scram.”

And scram they did. Following the ridge until they were well beyond the
fire line, they came at last upon an ancient trail leading down. Turning
they went racing down this trail at a speed that must have spelled
disaster to a less hardy trio.

Fifteen minutes later they burst out upon the shores of silent waters.

“Good old Rock Harbor,” Florence breathed, almost as a prayer of
thanksgiving.

On the dock at the head of that same harbor a half hour later Jeanne sat
in the depths of despair. Florence was gone. Plumdum was gone. What could
she do?

Of a sudden, from the distance she caught a familiar sound, the shrill
barking of a small dog.

“Plumdum!” she exclaimed springing to her feet. “It must be. There is no
other such dog on the island.”

It was a wild looking Jeanne who burst through the brush to greet her
lost friends a short time later. Her dress was torn, her hair was flying
wild, but her eyes shone with a glorious light.

“Plumdum! Florence!” she screamed, gathering the dog in her arms and
being in turn gathered in by Florence.

It was only over a rich “Mulligan” stew prepared by Captain Frey’s cook
that Tony’s story was told.

“I saw you go down,” he said to Florence. “An’ heard yer breath go out. I
thought, ‘That moose will get her fer sure.’”

“And so he would have,” Captain Frey agreed. “A moose has hoofs that are
like steel chisels.”

“So-o,” Tony breathed, continuing his story, “I dropped on his back.
Swell luck. I grabbed his antlers. Then I ducked down to miss the
branches. And say-ee!” he breathed. “Talk about speed! He was worse’n an
airplane.

“And then—” he paused.

“Then what, ye dummie?” Mike demanded.

“It ain’t nice. I hate t’ tell ye.” Tony took in a long breath.

“Did he go toward the dry swamp?” Florence asked. Tony nodded.

“Then I know,” the girl said with a shudder, “the moose went into the
peat bog that’s on fire.”

“An’ stuck there fer a minute.” Tony agreed. “I swing off on a low limb
of a tree. Then I scram. Of course, I don’t know but I kin guess what
come of Mr. Moose.” He heaved a heavy sigh.

“But, Tony,” Florence said after a moment, “how did you know which way
the gap in the fire wall was?”

“Found yer tracks crossin’ t’ dry swamp,” said Tony with a grin.
“‘They’re goin’ straight,’ I says to meself. ‘That means they know which
way t’ go.’ And you did.”

“And I’m glad,” Florence put in warmly.

“That was great!” Captain Frey exclaimed.

“Wind has changed,” the captain announced a short time later. “That means
Rock Harbor shores don’t burn, not just yet. We may get a little rain
tonight.

“You better stay with us,” he added, turning to the girls. “We’ll run you
down to the lodge first thing in the morning. There’s a snug cabin which
Mrs. Frey occupies when she is here. You will have it all to yourselves.”

So it was agreed. And Florence was not sorry. Surely she had seen quite
enough of life for one day. Sleep would be sweet after such wild
adventure.

“What of the boy in the crimson sweater?” she asked herself dreamily as
she drifted off to sleep. Then, “I’ll get him yet.”




                              CHAPTER XVII
                        THE PHANTOM OF SUPERIOR


“Jeanne,” said Florence, “do you remember that man over at Rock Harbor
lodge who was always talking about fishing?”

“Yes. Why?”

“He’s got me all excited. Let’s celebrate our wonderful luck getting that
Government contract by going fishing.”

“I—” Jeanne murmured, “I only wish to sit on the rocks and dream the
hours away.”

It was the next day. Several hours were at their disposal. They were
anchored at Tobin’s Harbor. The _Iroquois_ was due at sunset with a
boat-load of supplies for fire-fighters. The _Wanderer_ was to help
distribute these, so for the time they were standing by.

“You would desert me?” said Florence with a laugh. “Katie will go. Won’t
you, Katie?”

“Fishing?” Katie’s eyes shone. “Absolutely.”

A half hour later the two girls were on their way to the fishing grounds.
Florence was in her element. For her there was nothing quite like the
“living water” of old Superior. In a rowboat you are so close to it. Each
dark blue wave as it lifts you, then pushes you gently forward, seems
reluctant to let you go.

“The water is _so_ blue!” she exclaimed. “Must be the copper in these
rocks that makes it.”

“Yes,” said Katie.

“Or the blue of the sky.”

“Yes,” Katie agreed once again.

Truth is, Katie had scarcely heard. She, too, was in her element. She was
enjoying perfect physical activity, and that, to her, was life. L I F E,
spelled with big round letters. With a rhythmic motion, keeping pace with
the waves, her strong arms moved slowly back and forth while the oars
flashed in the sun.

“Yes,” she repeated as if something more had been said.

“Wait! Stop!” Florence cried. Her line had been given a sudden pull.

“A fish,” said Katie.

“A big one!” Florence enthused, reeling in.

“Not so big,” said Katie.

Katie was right. It was not so big, perhaps three pounds. A fine fish for
all that and Florence thrilled at landing it.

“And yet,” she thought, as they rounded a rocky point to cut across a gap
to a small rocky island beyond, “there must be a fifteen pounder
somewhere, just must be.”

“Yes,” said Katie as if reading her thoughts.

There was not for all that. No fifteen pounder rose to their lure around
the far end of Edward’s Island. Six times they worked their way along the
point, crossed it and circled back, but only one small fish brought them
a moment’s thrill.

“Look!” Florence exclaimed as once more they headed out from the point.
“There’s that lone fisherman, the mysterious one who is always there.
Jeanne calls him the Phantom.”

“Yes,” said Katie. “He’s out at what the fishermen call Five Foot.”

“How far is it?” Florence’s voice was eager.

“One mile,” said Katie.

Lifting the field glasses to her eyes Florence studied the lone fisherman
as he glided across the blue waters, then turned and glided back again.
There was something about the waters on this day that seemed to lift him
up above the surface.

“Looks as if he were floating through air.”

“Yes,” said Katie, showing all her fine teeth in a smile.

“There! He—he’s got one!” Florence exclaimed, quite forgetting her own
line. “Must be a big one. How he pulls!”

The lone fisherman was standing up in his boat. He was pulling in a hand
line, yards and yards of it. To Florence, who waited breathlessly, the
line seemed endless. And yet, when the end did come it was with sudden
shock, for the fish seemed immense.

“A whopper!” she exclaimed. “A regular whale. Katie, we’re going out
there! We must!”

“Might be too far,” Katie suggested half-heartedly. She, too, was a born
fisherman.

“He’s there,” Florence argued. “His boat is no larger than ours.”

“Motor boat.” Katie suggested. For all her protests she was not turning
back. Instead she was heading straight out over the blue-black surface of
Superior.

“A mile,” Florence thought with a sudden intake of breath, “a mile from
anywhere.”

She thought of the _Wanderer_ tied up there at the dock in Tobin’s
Harbor, of Dave and all the rest. All that seemed dreamy and far away.
What did it matter today?

Had she but known it, today had but begun and what a day it was to be!

It was with a feeling almost of guilt that she sat there watching the
waves pass them one by one. With an all but silent swish, each seemed to
whisper a warning.

“I won’t hear,” she told them defiantly. “Five Foot and big fish.”

Ah, yes, Five Foot. How often she had heard fishermen speak of it. There,
a mile from anywhere, the rocks rose within five feet of the surface.
That was why it was Five Foot. Beneath this giant submerged boulder, a
full quarter mile long, scaly monsters lurked.

“We’ll get ’em,” she thought.

Was it conscience that whispered, “Yield not to temptation!” Florence did
not believe in conscience, at least, not too much. So Katie rowed on and
Florence, watching a bank of beautiful blue and black clouds roll along
the horizon, thought, “What a grand old world this is.”

“Soon be at the spar,” Katie broke into her day-dreams.

“Reef begins there.”

“Al-all right,” Florence gripped her rod. “I—I’m ready.

“But look!” she exclaimed. “The Lone Fisherman is gone.”

“Gone?” Katie seemed startled.

“Oh, no!” her face broadened into a smile. “Over there.”

It was true. Out some distance further, perhaps a mile, the same small
boat circled and bobbed, bobbed and circled again.

It was then that Florence began to believe in Jeanne’s strange notion,
that this Lone Fisherman was no real fisherman at all and his boat no
real boat, but that it was a phantom boat manned by a ghostly fisherman.

“More than one small craft has vanished,” she thought with a shudder.
“The Flying Dutchman of Superior,” she whispered. She laughed at her own
superstitious imagination, but the laugh was followed by a shudder. And
at that moment the sun went under a cloud.




                             CHAPTER XVIII
                      FATHER SUPERIOR AT HIS WORST


The instant the sun left them the whole world appeared to change. The
water lay all about them black and threatening. Land seemed miles away.
Florence shook herself. Then she glanced up at the sun. The cloud was but
a small one. Already the sun was painting a golden rim along its lower
edge.

“The rocks,” said Katie, “are down there.”

Looking down into the water at the side of the boat, Florence was
startled. The water was crystal clear. The great masses of rocks were so
real that they seemed dry land. “As if we were floating on air above it,”
she told herself. It was strange.

“This is the place,” said Katie, as, a moment later, they passed across
the far end of that submerged reef. “You go across fast.” Her stout arms
sent the boat racing. “Then you drop your oars and let the lure sink
down, down, down. If you don’t get a rock, you—”

She did not finish, for at that instant something all but dragged the
pole from her companion’s hands.

“There!” Katie exclaimed, “You’ve got—”

But no! The line went slack.

“Oh!” Florence exclaimed. “What a—”

“There!” Katie exclaimed again as the pole all but bent double. “Hang on
tight. You—”

Was there ever such a thrilling, appalling moment? Once again the line
went slack.

But not for long. Ten seconds and the pull came again. “Now!” Katie
exclaimed, half rising in her place, “Now you got him.”

That she had something big on her line, Florence could not doubt. That it
was alive she was not long in finding out. She had reeled in twenty feet
of line when, of a sudden, the reel handle was jerked from her fingers.
Her knuckles were barked until they bled as she tried in vain to recover
that handle. Only the strength of her line saved the day, the line and
Katie, for the stout young Finn began backing the boat away.

“I—I’ve still got him,” Florence panted as she took a fresh grip on her
reel.

Once more she began reeling in. Ten, twenty, thirty feet, the fish came
grudgingly. Then, with a suddenness that was startling, the pull on the
line redoubled.

“He’s turned on you. Hold—hold on hard!” Katie screamed.

This time Florence’s fingers did not slip. With grim determination she
held on. This was a truly big one. She must have him. Was he the catch of
the season? What joy if only he were. To work as she had worked, then to
play for only a day, to bring in the prize fish!

“Ah!” she breathed as once more the strain lessened and she started
reeling in.

Of a sudden the line went slack. “Gone!” she exclaimed in consternation.

“No! No! He may—be only—” Katie did not finish. Once again the reel sang.
After a rush toward the boat the fish had darted to the right. Once again
the girl’s reel was emptied and it was only Katie’s skill with the boat
that saved the line.

“Sometimes,” said Florence with a mock-sober look on her face, “I wish we
hadn’t hooked that fish.” Rubbing the blood from her knuckles, she began
again.

For a time she met with greater success. Nearly all her line was in. The
fish was directly beneath them when, with a sudden rush he shot upward.
It was as if a spring-board were beneath him, for, as he hit the surface
he rose clear of the water.

A blue-black streak of silver, he appeared to hang in air, then, like a
depth-bomb shot downward.

“Wha-what a whopper,” Katie cried.

As for Florence, she was too busy saving her bruised knuckles even to
think. One thing stood out in her mind, she would not give up. She must
have that fish.

Sixty seconds later the fish once again came to the surface, this time
forty feet away. He came to the top, head, tail and all. For a split
second they were permitted to admire him, then he was down again.

Had Florence been a man, with the strong hard grip of a man in her
fingers, the battle must have ended much sooner. As it was, time passed
swiftly and as swiftly the big fish battled for freedom.

At last, just as the girl was giving up hope, the fish, with the
perversity of his kind, came up beneath the boat, circled twice on a
short line, then lay quite still on the surface. It was Katie who put the
finishing touch to that bit of drama. Reaching out with her strong arms
she gathered the fish, all wet and dripping, to her bosom and “loved him”
into the boat. After that for a full minute the two girls sat staring
first at each other, then at the fish. He was a forty-pounder,
thirty-five at the least; twice as large as any fish caught that season.

Then, with the suddenness of a blow on the head, both girls awoke to the
startling fact that during the battle their little world had vanished.
Gone was the spot of green among the blue that is Passage Island, gone
Blake’s Point and Edward’s Island. There was no land, only black
threatening skies and blacker water. Clouds and fog had blotted out
everything. Stealing up from behind Isle Royale, one of Superior’s sudden
storms was racing down upon them. Katie courageously gripped her oars.
But which way? Who could tell? In vain their eyes scoured the surface of
the waters for the Lone Fisherman. He was not to be seen. Man or phantom,
he had vanished.

“It’s a grand fish,” said Katie, striving in vain to keep the tremble out
of her voice.

“Yes,” Florence thought, “it is a wonderful fish, but at what cost!”

It was a sober pair that faced the immediate future. Low-lying clouds had
blotted out every trace of land. They were a mile from anywhere. Which
way was land? How were they to know? Two hours before the wind had been
off-shore. If they now headed into the wind, would they reach the island?
Lake Superior winds change on a moment’s notice. If land did lie off
there to windward, could they reach it? Every moment saw the gale
increasing. White-caps were appearing.

Resolutely Katie headed into the wind and began rowing. There was, on the
sturdy girl’s face at that moment, a look of such dogged determination as
Florence had never seen there before.

“I got her into this,” she thought soberly. “It was wrong to come.”

And yet, had it been wrong? It was their day off. They had wanted a good
time. They had had it, too. No one could deny that. Yet they had
been—well, perhaps one might say rash, impulsive. Did impulse ever have
any rightful place in one’s life? She wondered and could not answer.
Surely life would be dull if everyone plodded straight on always doing
the sure, safe thing. No vim nor sparkle to life. And yet—

Suddenly she realized that this was not a time for thought but for
action. Extra oars lay in the bottom of the boat. Seizing these she set
them in place, then waited until she had caught the rhythmic swing of
Katie’s rowing. After that for a full quarter hour the creak of oars, the
whistle of wind and the low swish of mounting waves were all that
disturbed the silence of those black waters.

Suddenly Florence felt a hand on her shoulder. “Stop rowing,” said Katie.

“Why? What—”

Katie made no reply. Instead she turned the boat about to guide it by
slow, easy strokes straight away from the storm.

“It’s no good.” Her voice sounded tired when at last she spoke. “All the
time the wind it grows stronger. Perhaps land is this way. Who knows? We
cannot go against the wind. With the wind we can go far, far! It is a
good boat.”

There was a note almost of affection in the big girl’s voice. “It is a
Thompson boat.”

Florence did not know what a Thompson boat was. She did know that their
boat was deep, straight across the top and strong. She was thankful for
all this. But which way were they heading? In some directions it was two
hundred miles to land. And who could tell how this storm would end?

“Waves, mountain high,” she murmured. “Lake Superior at its worst.”




                              CHAPTER XIX
                          A FLASH IN THE DARK


An hour later darkness lay like a black blanket over the waters of
Superior. Every moment of that hour saw the gale increase and the waves
mount higher, yet the strong arms of Katie never wavered. Heading
straight away from the storm, she held their boat to a course.

Florence was obliged to admit that for once her steady nerves that had
stood so much had now all but deserted her. What was the end to be? Would
they drift on and on in the path of the storm until waves were strong
enough to swamp their boat? As she listened she caught the low hiss of
each wave and shuddered in spite of her courage.

Then, with a suddenness that was startling, a light that was fairly
blinding flashed over their heads. Florence was thrown into
consternation.

“Ka-Katie!” she cried. “What is it? Are we in the path of a steamer?”
Through her mind there flashed a vision of some black bulk looming out of
the night.

As for Katie, so overcome by emotion was she that for a space of seconds
she could not speak. When at last she found her voice, she exclaimed
joyously, “It is the Passage Island light. I forgot it. We are almost at
the island. Listen—”

As they both listened there came the roar of waters beating on rocks.

“It—it’s terrible,” Florence said in a low, awed tone. “We couldn’t land
there. Our boat would be smashed to splinters.”

“No, not there,” Katie agreed. “But on this side there is an entrance.
There is a snug little harbor. If only we can find that—”

“Yes, if only we can. We—”

Suddenly Florence’s voice was drowned by a hoarse hoot that filled all
the night.

“Oh!” she all but jumped out of the boat. Then she laughed. “The Passage
fog horn! I have heard it at a distance.”

“Yes,” Katie agreed, “the light and the horn. They should have been there
before.”

“Perhaps something was wrong with their power.”

After that, for some time neither girl spoke. Katie was busy with the
oars and Florence with her thoughts. Long thoughts they were, you may be
sure.

It was a relief to know their position. And yet, how much danger lurked
before them? Ships going north pass between Isle Royale and Passage
Island. Should they find themselves in the path of a freighter the black
waters of the night might swallow up their smashed boat. Their fate would
never be known. They were headed for Passage Island. But could they find
the entrance to that harbor?

“Katie,” Florence said, “how wide is it?”

“Is what?” Katie demanded.

“The entrance to that harbor.”

“Twenty feet, I think,” Katie replied.

“Twenty feet!” Florence thought this but did not say it. Could they find
such an entrance in the dark and could they, with waves mounting high,
make that entrance? It seemed to her all but impossible.

A sudden feeling of rebellion swept over her. Here she was taking a day
off, trying to have a good time. For weeks she had worked hard with
little or no hope of reward. She had worked for the good of others. And
now—

“It’s not fair!” she whispered. “Not fair at all.” Her fists clenched
tight, she looked out over the black waters where white crests of foam
played.

One moment more and she was in a different mood. What was it, after all,
that she had asked of life? Thrills, adventure, suspense, mystery, that
was it. Happy adventure. Well, she had known all these.

“And this,” she told herself stoutly, “shall be just one more happy
adventure.”

But now Katie was straining eyes and ears. “We are close, perhaps too
close,” she murmured. “Sometimes the waves, they bring you in.”

She veered to the right. Dashes of spray cut sharply at their cheeks. “We
must take it,” she insisted, “or we may crash.”

Florence “took it” in silence.

The whole setting was strange beyond belief. With that bright light
flashing above them they were in darkness. Not one trace could they see
of the cliffs against which the waters dashed madly.

Then, for the first time, as if to light their way, there came a gleam
from the clouds.

“Lightning!” said Florence.

“Rocks! Close—too close!” exclaimed Katie. They were both right.

The moments that followed will remain long in Florence’s memory. No more
flashes came. The roar of surf on rocks was deafening. They were close.
But how close? Were there low, jutting rocks ahead? Would there come a
grinding crash and after that the end? Somewhere in that wall was a gap.
Where? How were they to find it?

It seemed the darkness and suspense would become unbearable. Then came
again that flash across the sky. Three flashes, close together. These
served only to mock them. The first flash gave them hope. The rocky wall
was still there. Perhaps the gap was only a little way ahead.

Now came a second flash. What was this? The wall was low now. It seemed
that here were only jagged rocks. The girl’s heart sank.

One more moment passed into eternity, then another flash and she knew.
About them was only black water flecked with foam. They had drifted past
the mile-long island without finding the gap. They could not go back.
They must go on. Where to?

Florence buried her face in her hands and tried to think, but her
thoughts, like the sky and sea, were one mad whirl.




                               CHAPTER XX
                         A WEIRD RESTING PLACE


Rain came sweeping down upon the sea. This flattened out the waves but
added greatly to their misery. The wind raced on. Riding with it they
moved forward into the great dark unknown.

Just when Florence was ready to give up hope her keen ears caught again
the sound of waves rushing over rocks.

“One more shore!” she exclaimed. “Is there another island?”

“No other island,” Katie’s voice was solemn, “only rocks.”

“Yes,” Florence thought as a fresh chill ran up her spine, “there are
rocks.”

She remembered it now. She had seen them rising above the water. One was
called Gull Rock. Sportsmen went there to fish. Were they approaching
Gull Rock? And if they were? She found little comfort in such thoughts.
The waves were still running high.

Forcing her mind away from the immediate terror, she thought of Dave and
Jeanne, of Mike and Tony and the mysterious boy in the crimson sweater
hiding away in the forests. Did he truly set the fires? If he did what
was his motive? No one had seen him even close enough to know how he
looked. Would Mike and Tony catch him? Would—

Of a sudden a dull, grating tremor passed through the staunch little
boat.

“Wha-what happened,” she gasped. They had reached the crest of a wave.
Now their boat was gliding backward. The darkness was intense. Peer as
she might, she could see nothing save the dim outline of Katie’s body.

“It’s the rock,” Katie’s voice was deathly calm. “That wave was not high.
The next will be higher. We will be carried onto the rocks. We must jump.
It is our chance.”

She did not say, “Our only chance.” Florence knew it all the same. At
that moment she was thankful for slacks and sneaks. They would improve
her chance.

“Katie!” she cried, “The rock! Is it high?”

“Who knows? We must jump. Now—” Katie caught a long breath. “Now we are
going up. Now—” There came a shuddering grind much more terrible than the
first. “Now jump! And run—run away from the sea.”

Gripping the gunwale, Florence vaulted over the side, struck a slippery
rock, all but fell, then, regaining her footing dashed with the energy of
despair up the slanting rock.

Had not the stout Katie gripped her arm just in time, she must have
dashed quite across the rock and have fallen down the steep side into the
boiling water below.

As for Katie, there was no chance of over-valuing her wisdom at such a
time.

“Come!” she cried, once her companion had regained a little of her
composure, “That great wave left our boat on the rock. There will be
three small ones, then perhaps a greater one. We must save our boat if we
can. You on one side, I on the other, we must slide it higher.”

Left to herself, Florence would not have taken one step toward those
racing waters, but inspired by her companion’s splendid courage, she
retraced her steps, seized the boat and, with energy born of despair, did
her full share of lifting the boat to a higher position.

“Now!” Katie panted. “Now! Now! And now!”

As she heaved away Florence counted the waves. “One, two, three.” Would
the fourth be larger?

“Yes! Yes!” she cried, as its dark, shadowy bulk appeared to rise above
her. “It—it—is a terrible one.”

“Run!” Katie cried once again.

Florence needed no urging. This time, however, she measured her distance
with great care.

With anxious eyes they stared into the darkness. Had they done enough?
Had their precious boat been saved, or would it go floating away, never
to be seen again? Florence had visions of herself perched on a barren
rock through a night of cold and darkness.

“Hurray! We win!” Katie exclaimed. “The boat is still there!”

It was true. The wave had reached out, but not far enough. They were in
possession of a shelter from the storm and a means of leaving when the
storm had passed. Florence breathed a deep sigh of relief.

“Come,” said Katie, “we must lift it higher.”

“Oh!” Florence exclaimed, as, starting forward, she stumbled over some
solid object and fell flat.

“Are—are you hurt?” Katie bent over her.

“No. I—I fell over something, Katie! It’s a driftwood log! We can use it
for a roller. That makes it easy.”

So it did, in more ways than one. Having rolled the boat forward on the
log, they fumbled in the prow of the boat for a fire-fighter’s hatchet
they knew was there. They hacked at the log until there were dry chips
aplenty.

Then Katie said, “We’ll tip over the boat. We’ll use part of the log to
prop it up. This makes a house.” There was a note of pure joy in her
voice. “I have matches in the pocket of my boot. They are always there.
We shall have such a fine fire.”

Such a fine fire as it was, too. To Florence, whose teeth would not cease
chattering, it seemed the jolliest fire in the world.

The north shore of Isle Royale is strewn with smooth, eight-foot pulpwood
logs that have escaped from booms in Canada and, drifting across, have
lodged on those shores. From the crevices of their rock Katie and
Florence managed to gather nine of these dry logs. Soon four were blazing
brightly.

Hidden from the wind by their over-turned boat, warmed by the fire, the
girls managed to struggle from their soaked outer garments and prop them
on sticks before the fire.

For a full hour they lay there before the blazing logs. Soaking in the
cheering heat and dreaming, half asleep, they all but forgot that this
spot was far from their snug floating home, the _Wanderer_, and Isle
Royale with all its problems.

When Florence at last sat up to stretch herself and stir up the fire, she
exclaimed, “Katie, I’m hungry. Seems to me I remember something about a
meal we were to eat on the rocks after the fishing was done.”

“Not these rocks.” Katie laughed a deep, happy laugh. “But these will
do.”

They had planned a supper of planked fish on the rocks off Edward’s
Island. Snugly stowed away in the prow of the boat was a closed tin
bucket containing sandwiches, a small pie and salt for the fish.

With some difficulty, Katie managed to prepare a plank from a flat
section of log.

“Now,” she said, “the fish.”

“The big one?” Florence asked.

“No. Never!” Katie was horrified. “That prize! No. We shall go home
tomorrow and we shall say, ‘See, we have been fishing and we caught this
one. Such a whopper!’” Once again she laughed her deep, mellow laugh.

“No,” she added, “one of the little ones will do very well. A two-pound
fish. Who could ask for more?”

The fish was cleaned, boned and laid out flat on the plank. Then, with a
wire, Katie bound it fast. For a full half hour after that the fish hung
stewing and sizzling over the fire. Turning browner and browner, it was
at last like the rich gold of an autumn leaf.

“Now,” said Katie with a sigh, “it is done.”

In her short life Florence had eaten many grand meals and in many a
curious place. But none was as grand as this and no place more strange.

“Now,” she sighed when it was over, “we must sleep, for tomorrow will be
another day.”

Sleep they did. Rolled up in their dried out garments, crowded close
together before the great, glowing bed of coals, they slept the sleep of
forgetfulness.

Twice during the night Florence was conscious of Katie’s movements as she
replenished the fire, and that was all.




                              CHAPTER XXI
                             SECOND WARNING


In the meantime, driven from her sun bath by that same storm, Jeanne had
begun worrying about the safety of her friends.

“Must be getting pretty wild out there,” Dave said, as he tried to see
through the driving fog.

“Do you think they would go far?” Jeanne asked anxiously.

“You know Florence,” was the reply. “She’d take a chance.”

Turning to a fishing guide on the dock he said, “Where are the best
spots?”

“For lake trout fishing? Blake’s Point and Five Foot.”

“And neither is protected from storms?”

“I’ll say not,” the man laughed hoarsely. “Blake’s Point reaches out into
Lake Superior like a pointing finger. Five Foot is a clean mile from
anywhere.”

“Would it do any good to go out and look for them?” Dave asked.

“In this fog?” the man laughed again. “Not a bit. Never find them.

“Oh, they’re probably O.K.,” he consoled. “They’re a sturdy pair. They’d
make a point on one of the small islands. Plenty of driftwood everywhere.
With a good fire and moss for a bed they’ll get on very well.”

“And there are narrow channels between the small islands,” said Dave.
“Storms don’t hit there. They may come sneaking in along the shore any
time.”

Loaded with supplies, the _Iroquois_ arrived alongside the _Wanderer_ at
dusk. Captain Frey was on board.

“Some of these supplies,” he said, “go to Florence Bay. That’s about
twenty-five miles up the north shore. The _Iroquois_ can’t get in there.
We have a hundred fire-fighters there. They’ve been living on salt pork
and beans for two days. How about going there tonight?” he asked Dave.

“We—we can do it,” was Dave’s prompt response. He was thinking of
Florence and Katie. But his first duty was to those hungry men.

“If those girls don’t show up by dawn,” he said to the guide, “get out
your boat and look them up. I’ll stand the expense.”

“O.K.,” was the prompt response, “you can depend on me.”

“I know that,” Dave replied heartily.

An hour later, well loaded with supplies, the _Wanderer_ stole out into
the night. From time to time as they moved slowly down the channel
between small islands and at last around Blake’s point, they gave long
blasts on their siren. The only response was the scream of a seagull or
the wail of the wind.

The pitching of the boat made rest impossible, so, encased in sweaters,
blankets and a huge oilskin coat, Jeanne sat huddled on deck, feeling the
cold damp of spray on her cheeks, and wondering about the fate of her two
good pals.

Shortly after midnight, guided by the light of a forest fire, they
slipped into a narrow bay, there to be given an uproarious welcome by a
hundred hungry men.

“We’ll wait the night out here,” was Dave’s decision. “There are supplies
for McCargoe’s Cove on board. We’ll drop them off on the way back. And
you—” there was an extra note of friendliness in his voice as he spoke to
the little French girl, “you better get some sleep.”

Jeanne’s beauty-rest that night was a short one. However, her hours of
dreaming in the sun the previous day stood her in good stead and she was
up with the sun. Early as it was she found the _Wanderer_ in motion.

After serving the crew with coffee and hot cakes, she came on deck to
watch the shore line slipping by.

It was still early when the boat began sliding into McCargoe’s Cove. At
the entrance of this cove was one of the most entrancing little islands
Jeanne had ever seen.

“Oh, Dave!” she exclaimed. “Please drop me off in the dory and let me
visit that island until you come back this way!”

“Sure! Be glad to.” Dave signaled for a stop. “They call it Birch Island.
It’s a beauty.”

As she came close to the island in her small boat, Jeanne assured herself
that here was a place of great enchantment.

White birches, evenly spaced and reaching for the sky, grew to the very
water’s edge. Mingled with these were hundreds of fern-like balsams.

A single fisherman’s cottage, built of weather beaten logs, stood close
to the shore. Silent and seemingly deserted, it told of another day.

That this cabin had not been long deserted, Jeanne was not slow in
discovering. True, save for a few rusty cans of pepper, ginger and other
spices, there was no food on the narrow shelves. But the frying pan,
tea-kettle and coffee pot still shone brightly.

Leaving the cabin, the little French girl wandered down a narrow path
that ran the length of the island. It was not a long walk. She was soon
at the far end of the island. There, to her surprise, she discovered a
second cabin. Perhaps one might say it was only a shelter. Built of
driftwood logs, it had but three sides and a roof. The front was enclosed
only by a mosquito-bar canopy.

When Jeanne had looked within she backed hurriedly away. She was, she
thought, intruding on someone’s privacy. A few pots and pans hung against
one wall, while on the opposite side, in considerable disarray, were
garments, quite evidently a man’s. From the nature and color of these
clothes she concluded the man must be from some city and quite a young
man.

She was not long lacking in proof of this theory. Even as she stood
there, the low thud of footsteps reached her. With a voiceless cry and a
soundless leap, she was away in the bush.

She had escaped. Yet curiosity compelled her to linger for a peeping look
through the bushes.

What she saw startled her no end. A tall, good-looking youth of uncertain
age stood before the shelter. His gaze wandered from place to place. “He
suspects something,” the girl told herself as her heart skipped a beat.

And then she barely avoided a gasp. She had, for the first time, noted
his manner of dress.

“A crimson sweater!” she breathed. “The—the youth in the crimson
sweater.”

Had she found any reason for questioning her judgment in this case it
would not have been for long. Of a sudden, the youth glanced down at his
feet then, without a backward look, dashed away into the bush.

Surprised and startled, Jeanne held her ground. For all this, her heart
was beating a pretty tattoo against her ribs. Where had this boy gone?
Would he return? And if he did what should she do? Her first thought was
to slip swiftly and silently away. And yet—she recalled her first
warning, dropped from the airplane. He had not heeded the warning, at
least had not come out into the open and proved himself innocent. Would a
second warning help? She dared hope it might.

With fingers that trembled in spite of her best efforts to control them,
she drew a stub of a pencil from her jacket pocket, pulled a square of
birch bark from a tree to serve as paper, then wrote in scrawled words:

  “_Second warning_: You are suspected of a terrible crime. If you are
  innocent you will come out and clear yourself. Gypsies never forget.

                                   Signed,
                                                          Gypsy Jeanne.”

Why had Jeanne signed this second warning? Perhaps she could not have
told. Was it because the youth in the crimson sweater seemed a rather
romantic figure?

With knees that all but refused to support her, she moved slowly toward
the shelter. Once there, she slipped inside, placed the note on a small,
hand-made table, weighted it down with a stone, then, springing away like
a startled deer, went racing toward the fisherman’s cabin and her boat.

Arrived at the small dock she found all serene as before. Some small bird
whistled at her from a tree. A pine squirrel chattered at her. For a
moment she stood there thinking. Why had the young man run away? He had
seen something. What had it been? In a twinkle she had the answer, her
handkerchief was gone. “Must have lost it and my initials were in the
corner,” she thought, a little startled.

After that, shoving off in her boat, she rowed to the opposite shores,
hid in a narrow cove and waited until Dave’s return, then climbed aboard
and rode away without a word concerning her adventure.


Dawn came on the barren rock that had saved Florence and Katie from the
storm. They were awakened by wild screams. These were uttered by a host
of angry gulls demanding to know who had invaded their favorite roosting
place during the night.

Breakfast of fish and gull’s eggs, a few bright hours of watching the
waves lose their threat, then once more they were on the water.

Two hours of hard, double rowing against the wind, a line out for trout
and two catches—one a beauty—then they were entering the Passage Island
harbor they had missed before.

Exclaimed over and welcomed by the lighthouse keeper’s smiling wife, they
were fed on roast beef and baked potatoes and brown gravy, plied with
questions, and at last taken aboard a neat little motor craft that
carried them back to Tobin’s Harbor and their astonished friend who had
all but given them up as lost.

“See!” exclaimed Katie, true to her promise. “We have been fishing. And
just look what we caught. A whopper!”

A whopper indeed it was—thirty-seven pounds by the scales—easily the best
fish of the season. Was Florence proud? No end of it. There was, however,
little time for strutting. A few moments of triumph and her insistent
mind was demanding, “What of the future?”

“Where is the _Wanderer_?” she asked.

“Somewhere on the north shore,” was the answer. “Make yourself
comfortable. They should be back before dark.”

In two big chairs before a driftwood fire the girls dozed the hours away.
And so ended one more happy adventure that might not have been so happy
after all, had it not been for Lady Luck’s kindness and Katie’s good,
strong arms.




                              CHAPTER XXII
                       STRANGE COMRADES IN BATTLE


When Florence learned of Jeanne’s exciting discovery on Birch Island she
was for going there at once.

“You saw him!” she exclaimed. “The boy in the crimson sweater? The
firebug?”

“Yes,” Jeanne replied quietly. “The boy in the crimson sweater.”

“What is he like? Does he look dangerous? What if—”

Florence shot a dozen more questions at Jeanne. Strangely enough, the
little French girl was quite vague in her answers, much more so than the
occasion warranted. And, when the question of her accompanying Florence
arose, she pleaded a headache.

“It’s only a two hour’s run in a small motor boat,” Florence said to
Dave. “You have another wait of several hours?”

“That’s right.”

“Then suppose I hire the lodge fishing boat and get Indian John to run me
over here?”

“O.K. by me. You might take Katie with you. But watch your step! If this
fellow is really a firebug, he may be dangerous.”

“I’ll watch,” Florence was off.

Arrived at Birch Island, they found the fisherman’s cottage just as
Jeanne had left it. But when, after a silent march down the island, they
came to the spot where the log shelter had stood, they discovered that it
was gone.

“Every trace of it,” Florence exclaimed.

No, this was not quite true. Dry moss had been strewn over the spot upon
which it had stood. When this was dragged away, they found a smooth, hard
surface which once had been an earthen floor.

“Jeanne was not dreaming.” Florence looked about her as if expecting the
mysterious boy to appear. “There has been a shelter here. But now it’s
gone.”

“Easy to move,” said Indian John. “Take ’em down logs. Put ’em in boat.
Row away, that’s all.”

“Yes, or just throw the logs into the lake and let them float away,” said
Katie.

For some time they stood there in silence. At last Florence said, “I am
not Jeanne and not a gypsy, but she says there is always a third warning
and so there shall be.”

Imitating Jeanne, she wrote her warning on birch bark. It read:

  “The Gypsy’s third warning. And the last. A last chance to clear
  yourself. Once we leave Birch Island, we shall set a company of
  fire-fighters on your trail.

                                   Signed,
                                                    The Gypsy’s Friend.”

After pinning this note to a tree with the aid of three long thorns, she
was prepared to follow her companions back to the fisherman’s cabin.

It was a silent and mystified Florence who walked slowly back. All that
had happened appeared to prove that she was right. This boy wished to
hide. Why, unless he were doing wrong? And what was more probable than
that he was setting fires? And yet— Why had Jeanne been so silent, so
reluctant to tell all?

As they at last stood again on the small fisherman’s dock, Florence
looked at Indian John’s jet black hair and smiled.

“John,” she said, “you are rapidly growing gray. There are white ashes in
your hair.”

It was true. Fine white specks of ash were slowly drifting down from the
sky.

“The threat is still with us,” the girl murmured.

Nor, on this day, was it long in making itself known. A brisk wind,
blowing off the island, began bringing in an uncomfortable feeling of
heat. Then, quite suddenly, like battling troops coming out of the
trenches, a long line of flames appeared at the crest of a low ridge not
a mile from Birch Island.

“Florence!” Katie exclaimed. “It is terrible. This beautiful island will
burn unless—”

“Unless what?” Florence asked eagerly.

“Unless we can save it.”

“How?”

“There are many birch trees, not so many balsams. Balsam needles will
catch from sparks. Birch leaves will not. If we cut away the balsams and
throw them into the water—”

“We must try,” Florence broke in. “All this,” her gaze swept the small
island, “must not be destroyed.

“John,” she said, turning to the Indian, “run the boat to a safe spot and
anchor it. Come back in the skiff. We must all do our best.”

“Perhaps,” she thought grimly a moment later, “that boy in the crimson
sweater will be smoked out like an owl in a hollow tree.”

Very little she knew about the truth of her prophesy. Not knowing, she
dragged a dull ax from the fisherman’s cabin and began doing her bit to
save Birch Island.

It was a battle indeed. As the wind increased and the fire crept closer
not ashes alone, but tiny, glowing sparks fell at their feet.

Whacking away at the trunks of small spruce trees, dragging them to the
water’s edge, then whacking and dragging again, Florence never faltered.
Grim, grimy, and perspiring, hating her dull ax, she toiled doggedly on.
One thought was uppermost in her mind, this battle, perhaps their last,
must be won.

And then she received a sudden shock. A boy stood beside her. Taller than
she, he smiled down at her. He was dressed in high boots and corduroys.
His blue, plaid shirt was open at the neck. In his hand he carried an ax
with a razor-like edge. She had never seen him before.

“Come on in,” she invited.

“What are you doing, may I ask?” He smiled again.

“We are saving this island,” she fairly snapped. “If—if we get all the
balsams out it won’t burn.”

“Say! That—that’s an idea!” His face brightened like a sky after a storm.

“I’ll cut. You drag ’em off,” he said shortly.

After that for a full hour it was cut and drag, cut and drag, a seemingly
endless task. And the fire grew hotter every moment.

Not even the girl’s strenuous endeavors could keep her from wondering
about that boy. Who was he? Where had he come from? Why was he here?

“He works like one who is defending his own home,” she told herself.

Strangely enough there was something vaguely familiar about his
movements. “As if I had seen him before. But I can’t have.”

Then a strange and mystifying thing happened, as the boy bent over to
pick up his ax which had slipped from his aching fingers, a small square
of white fluttered from his pocket to the ground. He was quick in
retrieving it but not quick enough. In one corner of this girl’s
handkerchief Florence had read the initials, “J. E.”

“Jeanne’s handkerchief,” she whispered to herself with sudden shock.
“Where did he get it and why does he keep it?” Strangely enough, at that
moment, all unbidden, three words came into her mind, “The Gypsy’s
warning.” Then the stern business of the moment claimed her entire
attention.

The last, slim end of the island was closest to the fire. The heat became
all but unbearable. Twice the boy’s cotton shirt began to smoke. At last
he drew it off, and dipped it in water, to put it on again.

Then came the moment when the last balsam tree toppled into the water.

“Come on,” he grabbed Florence’s arm. “We gotta get out o’ here quick.”

They did get out quick.

When at last Florence reached her skiff where Katie and Indian John were
anxiously waiting, to her astonishment she saw the strange boy go racing
away.

“Wait!” she called. “Come back.”

Did he hear? It seemed he must. But he raced straight on.

“We’ll just row out a little where the heat is not so bad,” Florence
suggested. “Then we’ll wait and see what happens.”

This they did. The moment when the raging furnace reached the water’s
edge, then came to a sudden halt, was a glorious one indeed.

Florence was watching with all her eyes when, of a sudden, she seemed to
hear oarlocks creaking. At first, looking out over the smoke-clouded
water she saw nothing. Then she caught the shadowy outline of a small
boat moving out on the water.

“Must be that boy,” she told herself. “But where is he going?”

The answer came to her at once. Beyond him was the outline of a small
power boat. He was rowing toward that.

Strangely enough, just as he reached the motor boat’s side, a current of
air lifted the smoke and everything stood out clearly.

“It _is_ that boy,” Florence said aloud. “But what’s he doing?”

“Standing up in his row-boat,” said Katie.

“Putting on a sweater. A crimson sweater!” Florence was ready to fall
from the boat in her excitement. “He—he’s that boy, the boy in the
crimson sweater. And how he has fought this fire!

“And that motor boat!” she exploded again. “It’s the one Jeannie says
carries the Phantom Fisherman.”

Then, as if a curtain had been dropped, the smoke fell hiding the boy in
the crimson sweater, the Phantom and all. Was Florence sorry? She could
not tell.

She did not know it at that moment, but this was the last time she was to
see either the Phantom or the boy in the crimson sweater on Isle Royale.

“It’s the end,” Florence thought, as they went chugging back toward
Tobin’s Harbor. “The wind is really shifting. It will drive the fire back
upon itself.” Even as she thought this, cold drops of rain struck her
cheek. Rolling up from across the lake a real rainstorm, the first in
weeks, was on its way.

Two hours later, drenched to the skin but joyously happy, the little
party arrived at Tobin’s Harbor.

Late that night, the great log cabin used as a lounge for the lodge was
comfortably crowded with people. The little fisherman’s wife was there.
One child was asleep in her lap, another played at her side. On her face
was a look of joy.

“Listen!” she was saying to the old man near her, “how it rains!” Great
sheets of rain were beating against the window panes. “A northeast wind,”
she added in a whisper, “the fires are over. Our homes and our islands
are safe.”

This was the joyous feeling in every heart. That was why they were there.
Drawn together by an invisible bond of common interest and friendship in
hope and in despair, they had gathered to celebrate.

In the corner, an impromptu trio—piano, cello and violin—began playing,
_Over the Waves_.

As the music rose and fell, as the sparks from the driftwood fire leaped
toward the sky, Florence thought that no moment in her whole life had
been as joyous as this.

“Jeanne,” she exclaimed, “you must dance. Dance to the patter of rain on
the roof.”

“Yes,” Jeanne agreed almost eagerly, “I shall dance. I have been
practicing a new dance quite in secret.”

“A new dance,” exclaimed one of the musicians, “what is it?”

“_Dance of the Flames_,” said Jeanne.

“Good! We have the very thing, an Indian dance to the fire god—you shall
dance to our music.”

A few moments later, after the lights had been dimmed, when the flames
from great logs in the broad fireplace leaped high and the strains of a
weird Indian dance rose from the corner, a slender figure clad in
garments of orange and red, with two long scarfs streaming behind, came
dancing into the room.

It would be hard to describe the dance that followed. Only the little
French girl could have so caught the movement and seeming spirit of
flames. Now she was a low fire creeping stealthily upon some stately
spruce tree. And now, urged on by some mischievous wind, she went rushing
forward. And now, by a trick performed with the scarfs, she appeared to
rise straight in air as the flames rushed to the very top of the tree.

When at last, quite exhausted, she flung herself down at Florence’s side,
there came a burst of applause that would have done credit to a much
larger gathering.

Katie arrived with a great pot of delicious hot chocolate and a pan of
cakes. They ate and drank and then, led by a very pious old cottager,
sang a hymn of thanks to the God who, with their aid had saved their
island for them and for their children, years on end.

“Jeanne,” Florence whispered, as they groped their way back to the boat,
“it is for such times as these that we live.”

“Ah, yes,” the little French girl agreed, “for such times as these.”

Just then Florence caught the sound of a voice that caused her to start.
“Ya dese fires dey will be over now. Dis is de end we is been waiting for
so long.”

At that Florence did a strange thing. Rushing up to the aged fisherman
who had spoken she said, “You are the man!”

“Ya, I is de man,” the fisherman agreed, “but what man, this is de
question?”

“Twice I heard you say the fires were being set.”

“Ya, it may be so.”

“Why did you say that? Was it true?”

“Perhaps ya. Perhaps no,” was the strange answer, “dese is been hard
times. Might be we old men think too many t’ings.” At that the old man
disappeared as silently as usual into the night, leaving the girl with
her own thoughts.




                             CHAPTER XXIII
                          DON’T STAY TOO LONG


All that night it rained, a slow, steady downpour. The wind that for
weeks had been driving the fire forward shifted. It was now driving the
fire back against itself. Everyone agreed that the battle was won. There
was great rejoicing on the island. The whole country received the glad
report by newspaper and radio.

Tim O’Hara, in his New York radio tower, at once got off a wire to
Florence.

  “Congratulations. Stop. Have set your appearance on our program for
  next Tuesday. Stop. Ticket will await you at Houghton.

                                   Signed,
                                                            Tim O’Hara.”

“He wants me to come to New York,” Florence exclaimed. “New York,” she
repeated softly. “He wants me to tell the story of our fight to save the
island, tell it on his Adventurer’s Club radio program. Just think! Coast
to coast! Millions of people will hear. Shall I go?”

“Go?” Dave roared. “Of course you’ll go. Finest publicity in the world
for our island. And think of the time you’ll have!”

“And I shall go with you,” said Jeanne.

“Sure! Why not?” Florence threw her arms about her. “No great occasion
would be complete without you.”

The two pals did little else save eat and sleep on their way to New York.
From time to time they discussed the mysterious boy in the crimson
sweater.

“He was a nice looking boy,” Jeanne mused. “Not a bit like a firebug.”

“No,” Florence agreed. “Not a bit. I can’t think he was one. All the same
I would like to know why he always ran away.”

“Was there a firebug at all?” Jeanne asked.

“Probably no one will ever know. Many of the mysteries of this old earth
are never solved.”

“Take a taxi from the depot.” This had been the order in Tim’s letter.
Florence took him at his word. After handing a grinning redcap a whole
quarter, she stepped into one of those luxurious New York taxis, and
said, “Hilton Hotel, please.”

Then she settled back against the cushions and sighed, “Boy! This is
life.”

At the hotel desk Tim O’Hara’s letter proved an open-sesame to all that
was grand and luxurious. They were ushered to a room with delightfully
low, twin beds, delicately shaded light, spinet desk and even a radio.

Florence thought of their crowded quarters on the _Wanderer_ and sighed.

But not for long. To the accompaniment of soft music, breakfast was
served in the great dining room below.

One more taxi and they were at the radio building. A moment later and
they looked into Tim O’Hara’s beaming eyes.

“I am glad you could come!” he exclaimed. “I am sure you have a grand
story.

“And this is Jeanne.” He gripped the little French girl’s hand. “Any new
dances?”

“Just one.” Jeanne smiled.

“_Dance of the Flame_,” Florence explained.

“Sounds great! But then,” Tim added, “you can’t dance on the radio.”

“More’s the pity,” said Florence. “It is a glorious dance. Truly
fantastic and—and—”

“Yes, I see,” said Tim O’Hara. “You really can’t describe it. We shall
have it somehow, somewhere.

“But now,” he was all business, “the other members of the cast are here.
Step into my office.”

There three men awaited them: a bronze-faced giant, a man of very
ordinary appearance and a slim, wiry man with sharp black eyes. The first
had been hunting lions in the heart of Africa, the second had been
driving dog teams in the “farthest north” and the third was a revenue
man, who hunted down moonshine stills in the mountains of Kentucky. Each
had known perils and adventures. Each, in his own way, was to tell his
story.

“This is just a get-together,” said Tim O’Hara when introductions had
been attended to. “We’re going to work together for three days—and by
that I mean _work_. So we should know one another.”

After that in a very informal manner each told of his experiences. When
Florence had heard the others she felt the least bit unimportant. But
when, with a word here and there from Jeanne and Tim, she had got truly
warmed up to her subject which, she laughingly explained, was rather a
hot one (fighting fires) she realized that they all were listening with
undivided interest.

“It wouldn’t be a complete show at all without your part,” Tim O’Hara
murmured in her ear when the others were gone. “Your story is truly
thrilling. And it has humor, interest and real heart-throbs. We’ll play
up those little fishing cabins and the old men who have been coming to
the island for so many years. You come back at two-thirty and we’ll write
the script.”

“Oh!” Florence exclaimed. “Must there be a script? Can’t I just tell it
in my own words.”

“Your own words? Surely! But it must be put on paper. Come back at
two-thirty. You shall see it all worked out in a very grand manner.” He
bowed them from the room.

“So this is New York?” Florence breathed as they once again found
themselves on the sidewalk. “How thrilling!”

“Over one block is 5th Avenue,” said Jeanne. “So very wonderful! Gift
shops eight stories high. Everything!”

“Fifth Avenue, here we come!” Florence exclaimed, seizing Jeanne by the
hand. Once they had discovered the broad avenue, so alive and gay, they
wandered on and on. In one shop they bought a bright plaid neck-tie for
Dave, and in another still brighter dress material for Katie. In a music
shop around the corner Jeanne purchased a small statue of a very great
dancer.

“For my studio,” she said with a gay laugh. “The place of my dreams.”

“Ah yes,” Florence thought with a sigh, “how much of all our lives is
made of dreams. And how very cold and lonely we would be without them.”

This mood passed quickly. “Jeanne,” she exclaimed, as a clock caught her
eye, “we must have lunch and get back to that office!”

“Fried oysters!” said Jeanne as they seated themselves at a bright green
table. “Shoestring potatoes, coffee and lemon pie. Why not? This is New
York.”

Fried oysters it was and all the rest. Then a taxi whisked them away to
Tim O’Hara.

“Now,” Tim said to Florence, as he leaned back in his chair to close his
eyes, “tell me all about it in greater detail.”

“New—New York?” she stammered. “It—it’s grand!”

“Not New York.” His eyes flew open. “Tell me about Isle Royale.” His eyes
closed again.

Florence did tell him. Told him in her own dramatic manner. From time to
time he interrupted her to exclaim, “That was a close one—That’s
grand—Just grand—You mean you were trapped by the fire? They flew over
you and dropped the dog? A moose went after the dog? You heard him ki-yi?
Say! That’s a grand story!” At this his eyes popped wide open.

“But this boy in the crimson sweater,” his eyes closed again. “Tell me
about him.”

“He—he disappeared.” Florence hesitated. “I wish we could find him. He
put up such a wonderful fight for that beautiful little island. He wasn’t
the firebug. Probably there wasn’t any firebug. He knows we suspected
him. I—I wish we could find him.”

“We will.” Tim’s eyes were wide open now. “Why not?”

“Do you suppose we really could?”

“You’d be surprised.” Tim leaned forward in his chair. “We pick all sorts
of people right out of the air. As if we had a string on ’em.

“Little while back a man was telling about his adventures buying
unclaimed trunks at auction and trying to find their owners. One very
mysterious case baffled him. He told about it over the air and what do
you think?”

“Wha-what?”

“Two days later he heard from the owner.

“You’re going to ask a million people to send that boy in the crimson
sweater to you and to tell you his story. And they will send him. Someone
surely will.

“But now,” continued Tim, “we’ll write your script.” For a half hour he
pecked away at his typewriter. Then, with a sigh, he murmured, “A mighty
fine story. That’s all for now. Tomorrow in Studio Six we rehearse.”

Four hours later the two girls stepped out on the brightly lighted
streets of America’s greatest city. It was night. A slender, gray-haired
man, with stooping shoulders offered them an evening paper.

As Florence took the paper and dropped a nickel into his hand she could
not help noting how bright his eyes were.

“Isn’t New York wonderful?” she said in a deep voice full of emotion.

“Yes,” the old man agreed. “It’s wonderful when you’re young. But don’t
stay too long.”

“Why—why not?” she was puzzled.

“New York takes you by the hand and whirls you ’round and ’round. It’s
very wild and gay and it makes you drunk. But bye and bye—well,” he
sighed, “look at me. You’d never guess it but I was once a reporter on
that very paper you bought. It whirls you ’round and ’round.” His voice
cracked. “Don’t stay too long, child. Don’t stay too long.”

“A reporter!” Florence exclaimed. “I knew a reporter. He went away to New
York, Peter Kepple.”

“Ah, yes,” the old man sighed, “I knew him here. He died—let me see, two
years ago. Don’t stay too long, Miss.”

Then his shrill old voice rose above the rush and roar of New York.

“Paper! Paper! Get your evening paper here.”

When they were half a block away Florence seemed to hear him calling,
“Don’t stay too long.” How long was too long? She did not know.




                              CHAPTER XXIV
                           THE INVISIBLE HOST


That night Florence dreamed of herself as a gray-haired woman in a drab
shawl selling papers on Christmas Eve.

The bright sun of next day drove all such dark fancies from her mind.

“Jeanne!” she exclaimed as she bounced out of bed, “Today we rehearse.
Tomorrow we rehearse again. And that night comes the big show!”

As the hours passed, Florence found herself losing all thought that she
was simply to make a little six-minute talk into a microphone. The
feeling grew upon her with every passing moment that she was to be a part
of a truly big thing.

And why not? Was she not preparing to speak to a million people? Would
the opportunity ever come again? Perhaps not. And would not her friends
be listening? Crowded about their radios on Isle Royale, in Chicago, in
far-away Alaska, would they not be saying, “That’s Florence! How natural
her voice sounds!” Ah, yes, it was to be wonderful.

Nor did Tim O’Hara allow a single member of his cast to forget the
importance of his part. Every moment of rehearsal found them keyed up to
a high pitch.

There were individual rehearsals, general rehearsals, a rehearsal for
recording. And then, on the second day, Florence caught her breath as she
was ushered into a large theater.

“Is this the place?” she asked, staring at a “mike” in the center of the
stage.

“This is the place,” was the answer.

“And will there be people here?”

“Two thousand people.” Florence was ready to bolt out of the door.

“Oh, but my dear!” Jeanne exclaimed. “It is just another show. Remember
how I sang in light opera.”

“Yes, but you are you and I am I.”

“Nonsense!” exclaimed Jeanne. “One or a million! Tell them! I know you
can.”

When orchestra members began filing in she felt better. Her part of the
show might not be so grand, but these would back her up.

Then a bright idea occurred to her, and in thinking of others she forgot
herself. It is often so in life.

While others were rehearsing their parts she slipped over to the
orchestra leader and said something to him in a low tone. He looked at
Jeanne and nodded.

She talked some more. He smiled broadly, then began beating out imaginary
notes with his baton.

“It can be done,” he agreed at last.

“I promise you it will be startling and wonderful!” said Florence.

The dress rehearsal thrilled her to the very tips of her toes. As the
notes of the orchestra died away and she took her place before the
“mike,” she seemed to feel the expectant hush of a real audience and from
the far-flung prairies and the blue waters of her own beloved midwest a
breath seemed to fan her cheek. For the moment, forgetting her little
plot with the orchestra director, she went through her part as in a
dream. Almost she expected a boy to step out from among those empty seats
and say, “I am the boy in the crimson sweater.”

After that her thoughts returned to the orchestra leader and Jeanne. The
moments dragged, but at last the rehearsal was over.

And then, just as Tim O’Hara was about to bid them scatter until
six-thirty, the place went dark, a spotlight began playing over the
stage, the girl in red drew her hands across the harp strings, the
orchestra took up the notes of some tantalizing oriental music and,
dressed in red with red and orange scarfs streaming behind her, Jeanne
danced out upon the stage.

In the moments that followed the little French girl was dancing upon a
great flat rock. The roar and crackle of fire was in her ears, the flash
and heat of flames in her eyes.

To the little group of onlookers this dance was entrancing. When at last,
all aflutter, Jeanne danced away into the wings, even the musicians
dropped their instruments to applaud.

“Bravo!” Tim O’Hara exclaimed. “You shall repeat it tonight.”

“But you cannot dance on the radio,” Jeanne protested.

“No,” was the answer, “but when we go off the air the audience here shall
be treated to a grand surprise. They shall see _The Dance of the
Flames_.”

So it was arranged. While Florence and Jeanne slipped away to a little
place around the corner to sip hot chocolate and nibble at sweet cakes,
the moments passed quickly and at last the opening moment of the great
show was at hand.

As the audience began to arrive the curtain dropped and there they were,
the performers moving about, quite breathless with anticipation. Slowly,
one by one, the musicians arrived and took their places.

From behind the curtain came the murmur of many voices. How many?
Florence could not guess. One thing she knew, these were but a handful
compared to the invisible host waiting out there in the vast spaces
beyond the theater’s walls.

Now someone outside the curtain was speaking, welcoming the audience.
There was laughter and applause.

Then, slowly—ever so slowly—the curtain rose. And there they were seated
before a theater packed to the very doors.

Florence caught her breath. She fixed her eyes on the clock. At exactly
seven fifteen the show would go on the air. Fascinated, she watched the
long second hand sweep around the dial. And then—

The girl in red drew her fingers across all the chords in her harp. The
little dark-eyed Spaniard on a stool thrummed his guitar, the big man
with a bass viol drew his bow, the horns, drums, the violins joined in
with a crashing crescendo. In the strange silence that followed a voice
said, “The Adventurers’ Club is on the air, coast to coast.”

Once again Florence watched the circling of that second hand. At exactly
seven twenty-seven she was to go on the air. Never had that hand raced so
madly. Her heart kept time to its racing. At last here was a nod from Tim
O’Hara.

Her knees trembled as she marched up to the microphone. But like a flash
it came to her, “All my good friends are listening out there. They are
part of the invisible host. I shall speak to them.”

And she did. The audience before her thrilled and chilled at hearing of
her adventures. They laughed when she told how Plumdum got his name and
were breathlessly silent as she told of being trapped by the flames, of
Plumdum’s parachute jump, and of the mad moose. As she told of her escape
they burst into applause. But to her, the great, invisible audience
counted most. And when, in her last tense sixty seconds, she sent out an
appeal, it was for one person somewhere out there on the air, the boy
with the crimson sweater.

Ten seconds of applause followed her speech. This was broken in upon by
the wild wail of the harp strings, and her share of the big show was at
an end.

At an end? Not quite. Truth is, she was only half through. At ten thirty
there would be another show for the western states. And before that, she
knew, the whole cast was to be treated to a banquet in one of the show
places of New York. What a night!

Jeanne’s triumph, as, at the end of the performance, she did her weird
dance of the flame, was even greater than Florence’s own. And Florence
was glad.




                              CHAPTER XXV
                             OUT OF THE AIR


As Florence sat in a shadowy corner of the stage waiting for the company
to gather and start their march to the banquet hall, she was thinking, “I
wonder if he heard. If he did, shall I hear from him? Or will the mystery
of the boy in the crimson sweater remain unsolved?”

She was roused from these wonderings by Jeanne’s voice in her ears,
“Come, _ma cherie_! It is time to go.”

To Florence, who had lived so much of her life in out-of-the-way places,
their banquet hall with its blinking candles, snow-white linen and
glistening silver was a place of great enchantment.

They were all there: Tim O’Hara and his two bright-eyed young
secretaries, the harpist in her red waist, the little Spaniard who played
the guitar, the entire cast and several others.

They were all scanning the bill of fare when there was a commotion at the
door.

“You can’t come in,” a waiter was saying.

“But I must come in,” a youthful voice insisted. “They called me in out
of the air and here I am.”

“Out—out of the air!” Florence exclaimed, springing to her feet.

At that instant the intruder broke from the head waiter’s grasp and there
he stood, the boy in the crimson sweater.

Tim O’Hara sized up the situation at a glance. Next instant he was on his
feet, “Ladies and gentlemen.” There was a thrill in his voice. “I have
always insisted that we bring them in from the air. Now here is visible
proof. Less than an hour ago Miss Huyler broadcast an appeal. It was to
the boy in the crimson sweater. And now here he is.”

Turning to the boy he said, “Whoever you are and whatever your name, you
are a welcome guest at our party.” At that he ushered him to a place at
Florence’s side.

The boy’s story was soon told. He had been sent to the island by the
conservation editor of a New York magazine. His task had been to
determine, as far as possible, how many wild moose were on the island.
Some seventy or more had been taken from the island. Were there still
hundreds or thousands? All those interested in wild life wanted to know.

“When the fires started,” he went on, “I thought of volunteering as a
fire-fighter. But I had to have the count of moose for the next issue of
the magazine. I couldn’t back out on the job I’d been sent to do. So I
continued to count moose.

“At last,” he hesitated, “well, you know how it is. You sometimes feel
things.”

“Yes,” Florence agreed, “and sometimes feel them wrong.”

“But this time I felt them right.” He laughed. “I was suspected of doing
something terrible. I was suspected of setting fires. How horrible! I
setting fires! I who have always worshipped trees as God’s first
temples?”

“But how were we to know?” Florence exclaimed. “We—”

“You couldn’t know,” the boy broke in. “Nor could you help my being
angry.

“Well,” he sighed, “I decided to play the game out to the end. So I
dodged you again and again.

“The end came,” he took a long breath, “when Birch Island was in peril.
That island had been my home. I loved it. And I loved the ‘Phantom
Fisherman’ as you called him. He was my friend and that island was his
home too. So you see,” he laughed low, “I had to come out in the open and
fight beside you. I was sure you’d never know me without my sweater. When
the fight was over I put the sweater on where you could see me. Then I
vanished.”

“And you—” Florence did not finish, just sat staring at him.

“I caught a small boat to the mainland, prepared my report, and came to
New York just in time to find you here. Which is worth all my trouble,”
he added with a touch of gallantry.

“Then you—”

“I meant to give myself up,” he added.

“What I didn’t know was that you’d call for me from the air.

“That,” he went on after a brief silence, “was the finishing touch.

“And now,” his tone changed, “something tells me this is a grand feed and
I’m keeping you from enjoying it. Suppose we proceed. Don’t let me spoil
your celebration.”

Enjoy it they did to the full. When it was over they all went trooping
back to the theater for the final performance.

To her surprise, Florence found herself going through her act the second
time like a seasoned actor. As her voice went out over the air, no one
listening in would have guessed that she was just another girl from the
tall timber of Isle Royale.

When Jeanne had repeated her dance of the flames and the curtain was run
down for the last time, the two girls said goodbye to that jolly,
friendly company and to their new friend in the red sweater. After that
they strolled out to the brightly lit streets of New York at night.

“Look at the people,” Florence exclaimed.

“They act as if they did not mean to go home till morning.”

When they neared their hotel they heard a cracked voice calling, “Extra!
Extra! All about—”

“There!” Florence exclaimed, “There’s our old newsboy. I must buy one
more paper.”

As she took the paper she slipped a silver half dollar into his bony
hand. He stared at her for a moment, then coming close he said in a low
voice, “Don’t stay too long, child. Don’t stay too long.”

“He’s right,” she said to Jeanne, as they entered their room a moment
later. “Look! It is midnight. New York has been whirling us ’round and
’round.”

“Ah, yes,” Jeanne sighed. “But it has been glorious.”

“Yes,” Florence agreed. “For all that, I’m glad we’re starting back to
Isle Royale and the _Wanderer_ tomorrow. I want to hear the wash of the
waves on the rocky shore and the seagull’s scream. I want to waken in the
night and catch the hoarse hoot of the fog horn on Passage Island. I want
to smell the cool damp of balsam and spruce trees and watch the sun go
down over Green Stone Ridge. That’s life for me.”

“Yes, _ma cherie_,” Jeanne agreed. “That _is_ life, but not for your
little Jeanne, not for a long, long time to come.”

“Why? What’s the matter?” Florence was startled.

“A letter from France,” Jeanne explained. “It has followed me days and
days. Now it has caught up with me. I must return to France at once. So
you see, my dear, it is goodbye. I go east and you go west. Is it not
ever so?

“But I shall come back,” her spirits rose. “When the tulips nod gaily and
there is the scent of lilacs in the air I shall return. And then—_Oh,
la—la!_ Who knows what will happen?”

Next morning on the deck of Jeanne’s ship they clasped hands.

“Goodbye, Florence.”

“Goodbye, Jeanne.”

“Shall we meet again?”

“Who knows?”

And so they parted. Shall they meet again? We can but repeat Florence’s
words, “Who knows?” If they do and it is our good fortune to learn of
their further adventures you shall read of them in a book to be called,
_Mystery in Red_.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


--Copyright notice provided as in the original printed text—this e-text
  is public domain in the country of publication.

--Silently corrected palpable typos; left non-standard spellings and
  dialect unchanged.

--In the text versions, italic text is delimited by _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Third Warning, by Roy J. Snell

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THIRD WARNING ***

***** This file should be named 44873-0.txt or 44873-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/4/8/7/44873/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Rod Crawford, Dave Morgan
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
